#EQs for Chapter 10

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. They prevented too much centralization of the government by permitting local nobles, officials, and religious powers to exercise their own powers.

2. The political structure was blended under the Tang because many of the rulers descended from Turkic elites resulting in Turkic arts such as pottery becoming popular. The second major influence was in the military aspects, which combined crossbows and armored infantry from China with horsemanship and stirrups from the Turks.

3. It was used as a way to support political rulers in exchange for tax exemptions, land privileges, and gifts.

4. Mahayana Buddhism was attractive to common people because it allowed for the continued acceptance of local gods and goddesses. It also was regularly translated into many different languages and was accepting of practices that didn't strictly follow its ideas, making it easily adopted by people of varying backgrounds.

5. They consider it cosmopolitan because the Tang Empire drew influence from Central Asia, Tibet, Vietnam, Japan, and Korea. The influence can be seen in many places one of which being the textiles they produced.

6. It was the center of the tributary system which controlled how individual states outside of China payed tribute to and accepted the Chinese officials as superior. It also acted as a trade center because of the roads and the canals such as the Grand Canal connected to it.

7. Similarly to Constantinople Chang'an was both a political and a religious center. Chang'an also acted as a gate between the outside world and inner China, they were connected by a large number of transportation routes and they cleared people who passed through. They also experienced a dose of the same epidemic that had hit Constantinople earlier.

8. The tributary system is a government machine that was used to keep outside powers loyal to a monarchy, while still giving the outside rulers the right to make their own decisions. It prevented the Chinese monarch from directly controlling the entire empire, instead he received tribute from the smaller rulers and he provided protection in return.

9. They are indeed similar to the Ten Commandments, while also very different because the Ten Abominations are more focused on political issues and social hierarchy rather than religious and individual promises.

10. The biggest innovation was the construction of commercial ships that could carry twice as much cargo as previous vessels and could sail all the way from Southern China to the Philippines and Southeast Asia. The second innovation was putting the government in control of the production of sea vessels, ensuring consistent construction.

11. Trade enabled for the spread of diseases such as the Bubonic Plague because trade moved people from different places around the world to other places around the world with great speed.

12. China maintained an export to import ratio that exceeded any other country. This was also improved by the monopoly that they seemed to hold on various products such as silk and porcelain. This lead to a large portion of the worlds precious metals being moved towards  China.

13. The Uighur were Turkic and practiced Buddhism while also excelling in areas such as merchants and scribes. The Tibetans emerged after the fall of the Turks and drew large influences from outside areas such as India, putting most of their focus on educational frontiers and the Buddhist religion.

14. Tang poetry was very important because it gives historians insights into the thoughts that people living in the empire at that time felt about their ruling class and the individuals who occupied positions of power.

15. Tibetan leaders lost interest and grew to oppose Buddhism because it was beginning to be looked upon poorly by the public and government officials. This was because Buddhist powers paid little to no taxes and did not contribute their labor towards the state's military.

16. The Tang dynasty fell because of a few reasons, the first being that the military and its leaders lost faith in the central government and decided to force upon their own reform, the second being that new local rulers encouraged people's ideas of defending against anyone who wasn't of their own region, further breaking apart the empire. This compares to the fall of the Han because the Han experienced the same increased fear of outside invaders.

17. They could not get along because the Tangguts practiced Buddhism while the Song practiced Confucianism. The issue is that Buddhism and Confucianism have long competed for political fame, leading to conflict among different groups.

18. I would consider the Tang to have once had an elite that was tolerant, or more so while the positions were occupied by Buddhists officials. The same cannot be said for the Confucian officials, who were intolerant of new belief systems, which is the reason why the Song elite were intolerant.

19. The most honorable would have to be the Lia through mostly elimination. The Lia received payments and tribute from both the Song and the Jurchens, but the Song then payed off the Jin to attack the Lia, and then the Jin turned on the Song once they had defeated the Lia.

20. The three inventions that I think are the most important and were at least partly contributed by the Song include gunpowder, movable type, and armillary spheres. Gunpowder played a major role not only in China but around the world, as it made a huge advancement in military conflicts and changed the way people had to plan for battles. Movable type was important because it allowed for the mass production of texts at a fairly cheap price, this not only made books cheaper, it allowed for more people to receive a higher education. Finally, armillary spheres allowed for a greater understanding of the solar system. It also allowed for a greater understanding of astronomy in general, something that has contributed greatly towards trade efficiency.

21. Neo-confucianism was different in that it changed the social hierarchy that was so widely accepted. It put people of civil action into a higher standing than those of the military and warriors, while also becoming more spiritual than in previous times, allowing for greater connection with Buddhist peoples.

22. It would allow officials who were in the middle of their preparation time to calm down and meditate, relieving stress that might prevent them from performing their best.

23. The civil service exams helped to ensure that the members of the ruling powers were actually fit to fill their positions. This is an improvement over the previous notion that commonly promoted people in society based on only relative connections.

24. Movable type allowed for large portions of the population to be able to study Confucian texts, providing the government with even a larger pool of individuals to choose from when they were placing people in government positions.

25. Its a hard decision but I would believe that gunpowder had a larger impact than that of movable type. Although movable type brought education and opportunities to common peoples, gunpowder propelled conflicts throughout the world, and provided a new faster way of resolving disputes. It spoke actions to everyone including those who did not have an education.

26. Money was flying because it was being distributed as paper substitutions instead of as the normal precious metals. This was because the Song were facing economic pressures which they decided could be solved through the distribution of certificates. The money eventually became worthless though.

27. Once land was not the only source of wealth, businesses and artists began to produce lots of money from private productions. This was different from before because the economy was no longer agriculturally based, it could now be supported by artistic expression.

28. It acted as a gift that the Vietnamese could send as tribute to Chinese rulers in place of precious metals. It also emphasized the similarity between Vietnam and China in their Confucian hierarchy because both men and women worked on rice cultivation.

29. It demonstrates how the political influence between China and Korea shifted back and forth, during the Liao and Jin, China payed tribute, but during the creation of woodblock printing, China was receiving tribute and the cultural ideas that came along with it.

30. These reforms caused Japan to adopt a legal code similar to that of the Tang, including a version of Confucianism and a partial adoption of Buddhist teachings.

31. They were able to maintain rule for a very long period of time because they never tried to exercise control, instead they let other rulers enact real control while they instead demonstrated the appearance of a leader without actually being a leader.

32. It represented increased political centralization for only a short time because although it put ruler underneath a single family, it eventually began to distribute power among warriors and this lead to disputes between strong warrior leaders.

33. Heian Japan was similar to Medieval Europe because it resembled something close to feudalism. By comparison Japan at the time was being ruled by one power, the current dynasty, while Europe was ruled by kingdoms, both the dynasty and these kingdoms had officials beneath them that they received tribute from, but eventually both systems broke down for different reasons.

34. It gives us insight into what the Japanese thought of women and the goals that they should pursue, for example, describing how women should not specialize into any branch of learning for further  studies.

35. Japan changed by becoming once again more centered around the military. It also took a large amount of control away from nobles, returning Japan to previously accepted beliefs and putting their political movement in reverse.

36. Song women were allowed to move around in public and to a certain extent present themselves, even though they had to endure pains such as the binding of their feet. In Japan on the other hand, women were not allowed to present themselves in public and were not allowed extensive education, although small education in literature was permitted. Overall the Japanese allowed for greater freedoms than the Song when it came to women.

37. The Song and Tang provided Annam with Confucian teachings, Mahayana Buddhism, and greater pieces of Chinese culture such as irrigation that allowed for even greater growth of rice crops.

38. The Song would have required the most reform in women's rights. A clear example of the importance of change is the way in which foot binding became popularized. Women not being able to work, or contribute a large amount to society became a status symbol, showing the disregard that the Song had for women's contribution.

39. They could make that argument because Medieval China was governed by a much stronger belief system. Confucianism is a belief system that set down a strict hierarchy and ensured that people knew their place. The Abbasid Caliphate was marked by periods in which it was difficult to pinpoint who was receiving power, while in China Confucianism kept power with the Emperors.

## Vocab

Junks: Ships constructed in China during the Song that could transport large amounts of goods while still surviving during chaotic seas.

Shinto: The native religion of Japan that is based around spiritual forms. Existed before Confucianism and Buddhism arrived.

Koryo: A ruling house in Korea which succeeded the Silla after the Tang lost power. They unified the peninsula of Korea. 
