#EQs for Chapter 11

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. Teotihuacan was full of religious architecture and was the place in which numerous human sacrifices were committed. The city was also thought to have divine, only improving its religious image.

2. The chinampas were essential for the city's growth because it allowed for food to be grown throughout the entirety of the year due to its ability to be consistently irrigated and protected against most frost.

3. The government of this city was likely not ruled by one single ruler who held all of the power. Instead it is thought that the power was split among a few of the strong families and single rulers might have only been puppets.

4. The cities offered centralized areas in which religious ceremonies could be carried out, this lead to an amazing period of architecture concerning religious practice. The rulers were influenced because they often took up the job of being religious leaders as well as political rulers. Their warfare was centered around religion, resulting in most wars used as a way to obtain individuals for sacrificial service.

5. The Mayan farmers were very advanced in many of their techniques, including swamp drainage, irrigation, and terracing of uneven terrain. Although many people had to grow some of their own food in order to support their population, the Mayan's control over forests and nature shows their advancements in those fields.

6. Women of Mayan society could be influential because they were commonly consulted on religious matter that concerned the household. They were also consulted if they came from a lineage of respected individuals or family.

7. He would be a supporter of bilateral descent because he came from a family that respected on both sides of the gender division. It would be beneficial for him, if both sides of the family were considered when people placed his own importance.

8. I think the Mayans would definitely lean farther towards the Advanced Placement realm because they were consistently influential in fields such as mathematics and astronomy. Even if they were primarily using this information for religious processions, they were still very interested in the research aspect of society.

9. The Mayan civilization fell down after people began leaving the cities, populations went on the decline, and warfare increased around the civilization. This furthered the previous two statements until the civilization dissolved.

10. The Aztecs admired the Toltecs because they believed that the Toltecs and their civilization and peoples were responsible for nearly all of the major cultural achievements of Mesoamerica.

11. War brought attention away from the rulers and helped to focus people's labor on a current subject. This way the rulers could lead their people with less thought. It also allowed for a simple method of character distinction. Giving people merits through war was an easy categorization.

12. Neither the Toltecs nor the Aztec rulers ever held absolute power. They only held influence over their peoples. The Toltecs shared power between a duet of rulers, eventually contributing to their downfall. While the Aztecs selected new rulers with a council and then judged the ruler based on the success of his military conquests.

13. People of society increased their position usually through military merit. This meant that people stood in a feudal like system. With the most respected on top, communicating through lower ranks until it reached the bottom of the Aztec society.

14. Clans were important because they organized the people of the Aztec civilization more than usual. They also tended to increase the inequality between the common people and the rich, which further destabilized the Aztec way of life.

15. I would rather be a member of the Aztec elite because of the way the hierarchy was structured similarly to feudalism. If I was a part of the elite I would be able to bring in large gains. But if I was a commoner I would likely receive very little say in society, and even less monetary wealth.

16. Food was commonly provided through the consumption of tribute from nearby peoples. A large portion of the Aztec diet was supplemented by farmland that existed outside of the Aztec lands.

17. An Aztec could improve his status by participating and succeeding in wars that the Aztec people were currently dealing with. If he failed, he would often end up in a class lower than were he stood before.

18. The Aztecs did not have the work power necessary to move heavy items and materials, making lightweight valuable items more popular. The items could include things such as gold, jewels, feathered garments, cacao, and animal skins.

19. Barter was a key aspect of the Aztec way of life. This was because their was no standardized system of currency to use when trading. To help alleviate this pressure on the market, people often used amounts of gold and cloth as substitution for price differences.

20. You wouldn't be a strong supporter of the cult because it emphasized human sacrifice. The problem being that often the lowest people of society were the victims of these sacrifices.

21. The Aztec tribute system differed from that of the Tang and Song because the Chinese empires used the tribute in order to further their rule and position, while the Aztecs used the tribute in order to sustain their ever increasing population.

22. The Aztec hierarchy was centered around the military might that someone could produce. This meant that military achievement was key in increasing position. This is same as in feudal Europe. It also hints at Confucian government because everyone is expected to know their own place in society.

23. Llamas allowed for the Andean society to transport large amounts of material with less human labor. Human labor was made very important because the rulers enlisted humans in order to construct their own projects. These projects tended to include services such as roads.

24. Khippus seems to be more centered around specifically number tracking and only concerning the government. Cuneiform on the other hand was used for various problems such as story telling. Cuneiform was a writing, while Khippus was a physical material record.

25. I believe Shi Huangdi would have definitely supported the Mati because he was very interested with standard projects. The Mati grouped people into ayllu and put them at work on public projects. Shi Huangdi would be happy to see how these groups were able to accomplish the massive creation of these public services and buildings.

26. It controlled the interaction of people who belonged to different regions. It allowed for the specific amounts of materials from different places to reach the areas it needed to be delivered to, and overall increased the dependence these separate people had on each other.

27. They set down strict restrictions upon the people that they controlled. This included, among other things, the movement of to be rulers to live in the capital, and the movement of materials or pieces of religious significance be put into the pantheon of the Inca empire.

28. Like the Egyptian Pyramids, the Incan roads were built using highly organized labor. In the same way they were consistently maintained and most impressive of all, they were kept up to high standards that didn't discriminate upon position.

29. Cuzco was the most remarkable because it was able to spread a sense of control that surpassed that of Tenochitlan. They implemented numerous methods of keeping their lower lands in order and the Aztecs can not claim the same fame.

30. Civil war was the main factor in causing the Inca empire's downfall. The empire was very diverse, but this eventually lead to large disagreements between separated peoples and conflict arose. Because conquered people never officially became members of the normal society, they were more prone to rebelling during the civil unrest.

31. The Inca emperor is like the Egyptian pharaoh because he commanded large number of people who belonged to the work force, and used them to construct his own buildings and structures.

32. Conquered people were treated similarly under both the Aztecs and the Incas. They were treated poorly, required to pay tribute, and they were not accepted as a fellow member of the respective society.

33. Their contributions with both chinampas and terracing demonstrate their importance in innovating the agrarian based society. They showed how a system of tributes can maintain a centralized ruling power and population for some amount time.

34. Allyus were used a good source of organized labor for public projects, while calpullis were more often used for food production related work only. This is because they maintained areas that they rarely owned themselves, instead they cultivated it for the land owner.

35. In both of the empires military conquest and war had a profound effect on the society. It was the basis for the social hierarchy of the Aztecs, and it justified the position of the Inca elite over their neighboring peoples. The empires used war as a method to commonly further their own control and the control of their civilization as a whole.

36. Conquest was the most important to the Mayans. This is because the Mayans relied upon new lands in order to serve their growing population. Due to their popular slash and burn agriculture techniques, they were often required to continue expansion as they used the land and left dead areas in their wake.

## Vocab

Moche: A Mesoamerican society that did not turn into a fully developed empire but still had a very strong social and political inequality among its people.

Tiwanaku: An urban city that appears as if it was supposed to be the capital of Inca empire before the empire had actually developed because so many wealthier people poured their labor force into the city.

Swidden Agriculture: A method of agriculture commonly known as slash and burn, in which farmers burn existing plants in order to add nutrients to the soil and grow upon the fertile soil.

Bilateral Lineage: An occurrence in which members of one's family on both sides, maternal side and paternal side, leading to an increased chance of being able to carry influence in one's society.
