#EQs for Chapter 32 and Chapter 33

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. Proxy wars act as great examples of the politics that existed during the Cold War because they demonstrated the fear that existed even between the super powers and the want for larger to powers to avoid direct confrontation that might lead to another great war.

2. Proxy wars had to do with the large powers taking advantage of smaller states and using them to fight one another without actually openly fighting one another. Dirty Wars were instead more focused on terrorism of the state.

3. In Latin America, the United States was merely providing some of the forces in the region with weapons and resources while in Vietnam they were actively sending over their own troops to fight in the war themselves.

4. Latin America was ultimately being influenced and changed through repetitive means of force where militaries continually overthrew the current government and instituted their own authoritarian dictators the would themselves get overthrown.

5. The Chilean president, the Sardinistas, and the Brazilian Solution were all steps taken by Latin America that moved it closer towards Russia and other Socialist economies and systems which at the time looked favorable to these peoples.

6. The Truman Doctrine gave the United States more reason to concern themselves with the power of Latin America because they feared that the Soviets would be able to place their influence within the region, which the accomplished at some points.

7. The Sardinistas would likely receive support from the communist nations because the Sardinistas were revolutionaries that supported a new government, one that could become the home of a communist party that would further improve communist power on the global scale.

8. Socialism and the collapse of the Soviet Bloc both contributed to the conversion of the revolutionaries into political public parties as they saw that their previously active support from Russia and other socialist societies was waning.

9. They supported the Truman Doctrine by actively opposing the communist ideas that were taking root all across the globe and especially in new and recently independent nations such as those in Latin America.

10. Universities were being "purged of secularists" and not only this was happening, but the women who lived there also had to live by the religious cultural values by law.

11. The greatest similarity between the revolutions that were occurring in both Latin America and Iran and the French Revolution was that they were all heavily characterized by their violence, with the authoritarian dictators of Latin America already mentioned above.

12. Before this period of time the United States was heavily concerned with keeping themselves from getting pulled into new conflicts but now that they had invested interests in the region they were willing to use some of their influence.

13. Neo-liberalism is the economic standard that was pushed and still is pushed by the United States that advocates a type of free-market, something that would benefit the United States' interactions with these other states by helping US businesses. For women in Latin America it helps give them new jobs, but the new jobs pay dirt and so are not very beneficial.

14. Foreign politics helped encourage both the United States and the Soviets to meddle in Middle Eastern politics because they needed every position to be able to stand up to the other. This usually took the form of the previously mentioned proxy wars which acted as ways for international powers to indirectly confront one another.

15. They all demonstrate Asian nations connecting with and facilitating the expansive trading opportunities that exist outside their own region. And as a result of this transformation they were able to begin competing on the global markets.

16. The most prominent aspect of these newly industrialized economies is the presence of government in their economies, they don't rely on a completely free-market. They also make sure to use government in order to provide high education to large portion of their population that helped them compete with the other powers.

17. Solidarity demonstrated to Poland that they could achieve success without having to submit to the violent and forceful powers of communism. Glasnost and Tiananmen Square also demonstrated that their were peoples who were willing to oppose communism and authoritarian governments.

18. They're important developments in the Cold War because they symbolize the movements that were being generated around the world that could lead to a greater anti-communist tone on the globe.

19. The Cold War and the Investiture Controversy were similar because they both had to do with two great powers that were fighting for the larger power but they truly wanted to avoid direct conflict because they wanted the support of their people.

20. Both of the protests concerned laborers that were done with the corruption and or unfairness imposed by their governments. They also were generally considered anti-communist.

21. The largest economic cause of downfall in the Communist nations was their dependence on closed economies which were almost always doomed to stale and slow as they could not continue to support themselves in such small quantities of people.

22. The political problems that plagued communism not only in Russia but places such as China as well was a growing fear of corruption within the government that always held nearly all of the political and economic spending power.

23. Besides being in similar regions the Persian Gulf and the Ottoman Empire are both similar in that they have both experienced periods of high status and high values but not one has fallen while the other has maintained resources that the rest of the world wants.

24. It showed the world that global powers were eager to avoid direct conflicts. The United States was basically acting as a mediator between the two nations and prevented them from creating World War level conflicts and tensions.

25. Population is a growing concern in places such as India and China where this new level of population decreases the standard of living for all and in China for example, they have been instituting new rules and laws that limit population growth by limiting the amount of children that people can have.

26. These organizations and their acronyms and initialisms represent the growing globalization that became fully realized as countries and businesses soon learned that they could move there working forces away from their home states and instead have them performed in places around the world where it was cheaper and more profitable.

27. Global migration had many effects but the most important of which were the changing attitudes that it lead to among peoples of varying ethnicities and backgrounds. Although many countries were initially accepting immigrants in large numbers as they thought they might be able to help the economy and provide support in times of reduced labor forces, they quickly changed their tone when they saw immigrants as an economic threat, and this lead to a new wave of racism towards people immigrating from developing countries.

28. The countries of large mass began informing people on the adverse effects that the rapidly increasing population was going to have on the Earth as a whole and they began instituting reforms such as putting restrictions on the pollution released by industry and rewarding good business practices.

29. Inequality among nations grew as a result of the manufacturing nations relying on the cheap resources that were being provided raw by developing countries for years and years. These developing countries continued to provide raw cheap resources until they began to realize that industrialization was a key to a better nation. The issue is that for the few to be wealthy, the majority must be poor.

30. For evidence of the spread of democracy at the end of the twentieth century you need only look towards some of the countries that have been abandoning their communist parents and have been taking up the ideals of democracy. These include The Czech Republic, Ukraine, and Romania just to name a few.

31. It demonstrated that the powers that be in the world and around the globe were still not ready to handle these new conflicts that were taking place and they still could not agree on the correct actions to be taken to resolve the conflicts.

32. They decided to intervene after some time had passed and they chose to bomb the region to force out the Serbians that had place themselves there, and for the most part, NATO and the larger powers were successful in their attempt to stop the conflict.

33. They were influential in the development of foreign policies because they worried great powers of the significant force that smaller countries were able to wield even though they didn't have nearly the mass and size of the larger nations.

34. The trade organizations allowed for the global economy to thrive and to more importantly share its information and resources around the world, resulting in things such as materials and goods being able to be delivered from anywhere in the world.

35. Probably one of the biggest pieces of evidence that exists to support this claim that women are in a better state now then they have ever been before lies within their new ability almost globally to take part in political decision making.

36. The cultural imperialism of today is much more instantaneous and can be communicated between nations in such a manner that governments can no longer put heavy restrictions on its movement. The Internet and many other innovations have made it possible for idea transmission unlike anything seen in the nineteenth century.

37. The importance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was that it established that it should not matter where one lives on this world, as long as they are a member of the human race, they must be ensured basic rights that must not be denied to them. This represents the role of NGOs because it set down the foundation of humane practices for the future.

38. 10 Events from the 20th Century
    * Formation of the United Nations
    * Cuban Missile Crisis
    * Decline of Communism in eastern Europe
    * Space Movements of USSR and US
    * Communist popularity in China and other eastern nations
    * World War I
    * World War II
    * US uses the Atomic Bomb on Japan
    * The United States stock market crash leads to the Great Depression
    * End of Qing Dynasty

## Vocab

Ayatollah Ruhollah Kohomeini: A Shi'ite philosopher that supported the displacement of Iran's current leader and he soon became the most powerful leader in the nation. He was influenced by European ideas concerning government but still maintained power by religion.

Saddam Hussain: Former Iraqi dictator that was eventually captured by United States soldiers and was the face of terrorism for a period of time.

Demographic transition: The transition that has been occurring around the world and in different ways. In large modernized countries such as those of Europe and North America, populations have begun to level themselves out, but in developing regions populations are still growing quickly.

Thomas Malthus: A famous demographer known for his opinions on the future of the world concerning its continually growing population.

Global culture: Global culture consists of the ideas that have spread worldwide and they include not only new technologies but also things such as education and popular culture.
