#EQs for Chapter 31

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. The iron curtain was a representative of the Cold War because the war based on the idea of the unknown that existed outside of your country. Specifically, America was suspicious of what the Russians would do with their nuclear weapons, and the Russians were suspicious what the Americans would do with their firepower.

2. Their appeasement would later influence the western powers to band together and form the North Atlantic Treaty Organization as an effort to prevent Russia from being able to accumulate too much power and to be able to pose even more of a threat than they were already posing.

3. The United Nations does a great job as giving us a view of what the political climate of the globe looked like after the end of World War II because the United Nations was composed of the large players that had taken part in World War II and were influential, but it also acted as a relief for people by implementing international organizations to provide help around the world.

4. The Cold War was characterized by the contradiction of capitalist and communist ideas because each side seemed to be gaining some amount of footing against the other. This was in large part due to the newly independent countries deciding to favor socialist ideas after they saw the poor treatment that they received under capitalism and their previous leaders.

5. It is quite accurate to say that the Cold War was a global conflict because it was a tension filled dispute and fear of actions between the United States and Russia, each on their respective side of the globe, which lead to the rest of the world becoming indirectly involved.

6. The World Bank as well as other systems that were being put in place after World War II existed in order to provide a platform of stability for the nations that were broken down as a result of the war to build on and reconstruct not only their economies but their governments and structures as well.

7. The conference demonstrating the split of views between the United States and Russia because the leaders were both responsible for an exchange of tension. In addition, the conference had to exclude nations such as Russia who had decided to split their economy from the outside world so as to foster their internal businesses.

8. The Communist economy of the Soviet Union worked by having the government impose direct control over the prices of the largest industries in the nation. They would determine the market movements and make sure that their prices were followed, effectively taking control of prices away from the market.

9. Newly independent states were attracted to Capitalism mostly based on the ill feelings that they had towards the capitalists that had previously ruled over their countries and had prevented them from being able to their own independent decisions.

10. The Labor Party led the government because they began controlling the markets that existed for coal, iron, and various other resources. They nationalized these areas of the economy and allowed for the rebuilding of Europe after the war.

11. Western Europe was able to make great movement and improvement after the war but if we look at the Soviet Union and their Eastern allies we witness how the Communist economy was able to initially give off the impression that the countries were succeeding but this became less apparent as success became determined by consumer goods.

12. They helped attract other nations to their side by offering to give them good deals on economic decisions such as loans. They each wanted to get as much support as they could on the global front.

13. They countered the National Atlantic Treaty Organization by establishing their own pact called the Warsaw Pact, in which they provided support to other nations that could help to apply pressure on the other nations such as Germany.

14. The Soviet Union tested Western resolve by cutting off Germany from the West by building a wall within Germany and by preventing Germans from fleeing the communist state and moving into the Capitalist state.

15. Each of those actions and events ranging from the Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Plan were successive in what they were trying to accomplish because they prevented some friendly states from joining the Communists and to decide on keeping aligned with the Capitalist nations.

16. It demonstrated that the Soviet Union was willing to impose themselves into any environment that they felt they had the right to control and regulate if they thought that not taking might decrease their influence or power in the respective region.

17. The Korean War was definitely a Cold War conflict because it was tied to the conflict of the Cold War which was that the Communists and the Capitalists were increasingly at ends, and deciding the fate of Korea was rooted in this conflict.

18. The Vietnam can be considered a Cold War conflict because the Western powers wanted to try and ensure that their ideologies existed in the region but it can also be considered a response to European imperialism because the French had previously imposed themselves within the region.

19. It is accurate to say that those movements were movements for change because they encouraged a new ideology that favored peace as opposed to the previous ideology which saw war as the number one option in furthering one's own country.

20. We realized that the United States does not have the ability to just enter into a region to be able to impose our new ideas while expecting for the native population to be grateful that we have come to "enlighten" them.

21. Those quotes were spoken by President Eisenhower and Khrushchev respectively. They are reflective of the war because they explain the equal threat that existed between the two superpowers since they both possessed the power necessary to destroy the other.

22. The Bay of Pigs played a large role in the Cuban Missile Crisis because it was the main cause for the country to want to hold weapons for the Soviet Union as a way to get back and protect themselves from the meddling United States of America.

23. A nuclear war did not occur mostly because each nation that had participated in the war grew their weaponry available to the point that a war would have more destructive consequences on the entirety of the war instead of the benefits that it might provide for any one nation.

24. The race for space represented the tension between the United States and the Soviet Union because it looked more like a game of sport rather than a global warfare incident and although some countries got the upper hand, Russia reaching space first, America reaching the moon first.

25. Decolonization of Asia was based in the separating of countries that already had many of their systems put in place that allowed for them to start right of the bat. As opposed to the African states which generally had a tough time conquering the language and cultural barriers and didn't have already existing countries to support them.

26. The conflict of Kashmir is indicative of that conflict between India of Pakistan because it demonstrated how the two nations were not eager to fight each but their cultural differences made a lack of conflict next to impossible.

27. Algeria relates to nationalism because their revolt that eventually led to their independence from France was rightfully executed but they still had to maintain economic ties to their older managers even after their success.

28. The independence of British colonies in Africa was centered on the resistance to give up sources of cheap material and resources, while the colony could exist on its own. In the French colonies, many of the economic leaders that were enabling the colony to succeed left after the state achieved independence which led to state struggles.

29. Colonialism and Imperialism impacted those new African nations by first making them feel like they had a dependence on their ruling nations because those nations had previously provided laws and leadership, but more than anything, they gathered a comprehensive sense of nationalism.

30. They were representative of those who were opposed to the segregation of the races for the benefit of the white men and individuals because they had been arrested multiple times and gotten to know first hand what it was like to have your civil liberties trampled on.

31. Latin had gained political independence because they began electing their own presidents and their own rulers in general but they had failed to gain economic independence because they still relied on the manufactured products of the industrialized nations.

32. Mexico faced many economic challenges, the largest of which includes the countries inability to help their poor population as big migrations into Mexico City and the governments control of big businesses prevented self success.

33. American businesses held large investments in Guatemala and Cuba that provided them the justification to continually move towards and attempt to suppress the ability of the local businesses to be able to compete with them and therefore inhibiting local growth.

34. The Truman policies of containment can be found in action in Latin America by seeing the Central Intelligence Agencies repeated efforts to control the governments of Latin American countries such as Cuba from the inside.

35. Mao's reforms met failure twice as he created small scale industry to favor the peasantry but this yielded poor results and then he decided to create small scale government parties of Red Guards which led to greater political corruption.

36. The most important international organization of this chapter was the National Atlantic Treaties Organization because it perfectly demonstrated the fear that Capitalism had against Communism and its seemingly endless rise in power among not only the Soviet Union but the smaller states as well.

37. The war is representative of the conflict in the post World War II era because it demonstrated the conflict could still be held on a local level but could have effects that would drag in larger powers such as Europe and the United States of America.

38. In the Middle East and in other nations where oil was being supplied from, they had learned to coordinate their supplies with organizations such as OPEC that enabled the countries to influence larger countries through fear of being economically cut off from the black gold supply.

## Vocab

The Green Revolution: A global event that was related to the great success of countries all over the world in responding to food shortages that had existed. Many new crops were released and flourished.

Ho Chi Minh: A leader of Vietnam that tried to support the French in their effort to maintain control of Vietnam during Vietnam rebellion.

Dwight D. Eisenhower: An American president that played a large role in the Cold War and warned the Soviet Union against taking any military actions against the United States.

John F. Kennedy: American president that in the context of this chapter had decided to support the South Vietnamese during the Vietnam War.

Charles de Gaulle: French politician that had advocated African independence but later warned of the possible negative side effects that would be associated with independence.

African National Congress: A collection of Africans that were directly opposed to the segregation that existed in Africa that prevented Africans from being afforded the same civil liberties that were being given to the Europeans.

CIA: An initialism that stands for the Central Intelligence Agency and was responsible for many cases of United States meddling within Latin America in order to further the United States best interests in the region.

Non-aligned nations / Third World nations: Nations that have not yet sided with either the Capitalists or the Communists, especially during the Cold War.

Gamal Abd al-Nasir: The leader of Egypt at the time of the Cold War and a passive target of Soviet Union who believed that Egypt would stand idly for the Communists to take over.

Che Guavera: A Cuban revolutionary of Communism that was the charismatic leader of Latin American reform movements.

PRI: The Institutional Revolutionary Party of Mexico which set Mexico into a state of relative stability that allowed it to grow for a period of time.

Yasir Aratat and the PLO: An effort by the Palestinian occupation that still resided in Israel to take Israel away from the Jews and to free the Palestinians that had been trapped or forced out after the Zionists took the region.
