# The Diversity of American Colonial Societies

## The Columbian Exchange

The Columbian Exchange was the movement of different resources to and from the Americas. Large diseases such as small pox that would come from Europe and when introduced to the Americans who had little immunity, it would vastly reduce the populations. Europeans brought many of their crops to the Americas and they soon became American staples of the diet. The same can also be said about the crops such as maize and potatoes which were transferred from the Americas to Europe and were accepted just as quickly as their European brothers. Finally, it should be noted that the introduction of horses into the Americas permitted new ways for natives to hunt for food.

## Spanish America and Brazil

Even when Europeans moved into more southern areas of America, the ancient peoples there attempted to maintain their previous traditions through agreements with the colonials. In order to better handle the lack of quick access to the higher powers of Spain, the colonists formed the Council of the Indies which was able to make government and religious decisions on part of the powers of Spain. Colonial economies, at least initially benefited from cheap slave labor from the local Amerindians, the new peoples used a form of labor payment similar to the Inca, showing the connections to the old roots. Elites from different ethnicities all attempted to instate their own powers but it was very difficult for Spaniards due to their overall poor relationship with the locals who experienced poor treatment and the new epidemics. The slaves who lived and worked in the Americas were given very lowly jobs with one of the worst positions being working for sugar plantations.

## English and French Colonies in North America

English powers in Europe pushed expeditions towards the Americas but many of these movements failed as they could not seem to gain footing in these new lands among the new people. New English colonies in the farther South set themselves apart from the usual government system as, even though they had crown-appointed representatives, they used a democratic system to elect new officials. New England became occupied with two different but similar parties: the Pilgrims and the Puritans, with the Pilgrims wishing to cut themselves off from the English church, while the Puritans wished only to modify the English church's beliefs. A new popular trade emerged with the movement of furs around the Americas, they came from Canada and gave special improvement to jobs for locals that benefited from their expansive knowledge of the land and the peoples. In French America, the new wealth generated by the fur trade allowed for native peoples to increase their supply of European weapons like firearms, making warfare more dangerous, creating a new issue for settlers.

## Colonial Expansion and Conflict

Imperial leaders in Europe were beginning to have difficulty extending their control over the new colonies in the Americas and made the situation worse by imposing larger taxes, decreasing their local popularity. New reforms that spread from Spain in order to increase their power and production in the Americas actually worsened their position by making the colonists resentful of the monopolies that the Imperial powers tried to maintain. Amerindian populations also participated in their rebellion against not only imperial powers but local European governments which often oppressed the local populations. The British crown attempted once more to establish their rule in the Americas by instating their own members in government positions in New York and other colonies, but this was an utter failure as colonists resisted this unfair government of misrepresentation.

## Environment and Technology: The Silver Refinery at Potosi, Bolivia, 1700

Silver was one of the most popular and productive industries in the new Americas, attracting many Spaniards. Massive refineries were constructed in order to help fulfill the silver demand. These refineries consumed large amounts of water from aqueducts and had a large impact on their local environments. In addition to their consumption of water they also contributed to deforestation and the destroying of soils by dumping their unwanted materials.

## Diversity and Dominance: Race and Ethnicity in the Spanish Colonies: Negotiating Hierarchy

Some of the Spanish settlers who came to the Americas became interested in mixing the various populations to help peaceful integration. This rarely occurred, instead it was common for white scholars to label people into specific classes like scientific taxonomy, and they tried to fit every variation of ethnicities into these categories. Another aspect of the white population was their general belief that the Europeans were genetically superior to the natives. This created unnecessary tension between the different populations.

## Conclusion

Nearly every group of settlers that came to the Americas used the native populations as a race lower than their own, but it for labor. Each empire of the Americas used its own method of producing wealth such as silver mining in the Spanish areas and fur trading in French Canada. Collections of all different types of Europeans formed in these new colonies and effectively mixed different cultures. After wealth and power increased in the Americas the colonies began to distance themselves from imperial powers in Europe.

## Reflection

words{

discrimination: Many of these colonies took advantage of native populations. In the southern Americas, Spanish colonies enjoyed using Amerindians as a cheap labor source and made a large profit by using for labor such as sugar cane farming.

build: Colonies in the Americas had to build themselves from mostly the ground up. Even though they arrived with limited resources, they had to rely on new productions of the Americas. Each set of colonies generally found a source of food and wealth, silver for the Spanish and furs for the French.

separation: A large amount of the new colonies in the Americas can be characterized by the word "separation" because they all eventually had common ideas about separating themselves from the powers that resided in Europe. The powers in Europe just couldn't extend their influence with enough speed, giving these colonies an upper hand.

}
