#EQs for Chapter 19

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. The empire grew with such speed after the emergence of itself in Anatolia due to its stark and quick decision making by its founder, the amount of influence and control that they kept on the Straight of Dancelle, and their idea to develop a new army based on the revolutionary gun powder weapons that were emerging.

2. After Timur had decentralized the empire by attacking and conquering the city of Bayazid, Selim I was able to reunify the people of the Ottoman Empire. In the same light, Sultan Mehmed II who destroyed the Byzantine Empire's reputation while strengthening that of the Ottoman's by his conquering of the city of Constantinople.

3. The Ottomans would see Suleiman as a great warrior who fought well for the benefit of the Ottoman Empire and destroyed the incorrect Christians. On the other hand, Eastern Europeans would likely view the Suleiman as a monster who ruthlessly attacked the people of God and the people of Christ to further his own Ottoman agenda.

4. It's accurate to state that Venice had a strong economy because it controlled a majority of the islands in the Mediterranean which allowed it to manage a great amount of trade through the sea. Because the Ottomans commonly traded through the Mediterranean Sea this gave a great advantage to the city of Venice and this also reduced the profits that went towards the Ottomans.

5. Venice was able to keep a strict amount of control over profitable islands because they took advantage of the Ottomans loose restrictions on how their lower governments controlled their own lands.

6. The similarity between both the Chinese and the Ottomans was that they had very little laws that took power away from the trading economies of their lower powers. Instead they permitted regions that were paying tribute to maintain their own ports and their systems of trade without Ottoman influence.

7. The Ottomans replied violently to the threats made by the Portuguese that they would attack trading ships if dues were not paid to them. Even with their violent movement against the Portuguese, the Ottomans were unable to subdue the Portuguese because they were to remote from the Portuguese to enact real actions.

8. Janissaries acted as a way to supplement the Ottoman Empire's army by taking advantage of Christian prisoners and converting to the faith of Islam. Compared to the Mamluk soldiers that were normal and a part of the Ottoman population, the Janissaries performed very well along Mamluks since they came from non nomadic peoples and could take up guns easily.

9. The Janissary force was favorable to the Ottoman empire for multiple reasons including that they were generally cheaper since they could afford to pay non-Ottomans less and they could be assembled from normal peoples living in the Empire through the enactment of laws.

10. Devshirme improved the Ottoman government because it gave the Ottomans a more readily available supply of adequate members of society. The children that they took and educated could come to occupy high positions of the government and could be just as loyal to the Ottomans as a native born.

11. The Ottoman Empire can be considered cosmopolitan because they first of all allowed various people to occupy government positions not just making the government exclusive to a single class. In addition to this the Ottoman Empire accepted large amounts of people from Christians to Jews when they were being expelled from Spanish lands.

12. The land grant system was important because it allowed for the government to ensure the payment of taxes set at a fixed rate. A consequence of this though was that the fixed rates did not change with the value of currency. Therefore when the value of coinage dropped significantly after Spain produced precious metals from the Americas, the income of the Ottoman government disappeared as well.

13. The Sultan acted as both a religious leader and as a political leader effectively integrating Islam and the government. Another aspect of this integration was the Shari'a law that was enforced in the Ottoman Empire.

14. The Grand Viziers benefited from the Anatolia Revolts because it gave them more power over the government. Janissaries were given the ability to marry others. And, the tax farmers were able to put forth practices that gave them greater ability to collect taxes from the population of the Ottoman Empire.

15. The Europeans provided the port of Izmur with an extreme influx of coinage which the tax collectors at the port then forwarded on to the Ottoman Government that was able to supplement the government's previous losses.

16. The Spanish silver almost destroyed the Ottoman Empire's economy. This is because after the Spanish discovered the Americas and the profits that the Americas could yield they began pulling as much precious metal away from the Americas as possible. This introduction of precious metals into Europe decimated the prices of current currency and got rid of people's wealth extremely fast.

17. The coffee of the Ottoman Empire are associated with the Tulip Period because it allowed for people to stay awake and stay focused. The issue that arose was that the Ottomans began to ban the sale and consumption of coffee because of their personal distaste for its effects on the physiology of individuals.

18. The Safavid Empire resembled the Ottomans because they made use of the Ottomans practice of land grants for collecting taxes, supported a cosmopolitan population of people, and directed their attention towards Earthly affairs rather than that of Maritime troubles.

19. Because Ismail declared that he would only permit people to follow Shi'ite Islam, people created tension inside of his empire. Not only were tensions high inside of the empire tensions were even greater between his neighboring powers who were primarily Sunnis.

20. Shi'ism affected the ulama by making it easier for them to make studies in a variety of languages and to become more acquanted with works by peoples such as the Romans. And, for the life of the common individual, Shi'ism gave believers festivals to attend and along with these festivals the people of Iran developed their own identity separated from neighboring peoples.

21. Istanbul and Isfahan differed in that Istanbul put their focus towards things such as the government and the state as opposed to Isfahan which favored to provide support and the most attention on subjects of religion such as Mosques which were frequently covered in great colors and artistry.

22. The similarities between Istanbul and Isfahan include their poor treatment and lack of rights for women. Women were restricted to certain areas of the household and disallowed from taking up political positions or jobs that would expose them outside of their homes. In courts they had to stand for themselves since attorneys did not yet exist.

23. The conditions for women in both the Safavid and Ottoman Empires was less than to be appreciated. As men monopolized the life of individuals who showed themselves during public they left little room for women to play influential roles within the Empire's societies.

24. The downfall of the Safavid Empire was a combination of economic instability as well as severe political collapse. The economic stability was attributed to the fact that Iran's manufacturing was unproductive for the most part. The politics were caused by a recurring theme of governments lacking the taxes to support their military might.

25. The Mughal Empire differed from that of the Ottomans and Safavids because it was occupied by a majority of Hindus rather than Muslims. Additionally, the Mughal Empire had to continually strive to prevent their culture from being pushed out or consumed by invading cultures such as that of Islam.

26. The biggest effect that the Hindu faith had upon the Mughal Empire was the common application of the Hindu caste system. Just like before in past Indian Empires, the Hindu faith and its caste system creates a strict power dynamic between the different classes of India and where they should position themselves according to others.

27. The Rujputs and Janissaries were similar because they both included peoples who were originally from foreign lands. In the Janissaries case the foreigners had an alternate religion, Christianity, which they practiced and which the Ottomans switched to Islam while the Rajputs were already Hindu.

28. The Taj Mahal was built by a Mughal emperor and was meant to act as a symbol of the Mughal Empire's dominion and dominance over the other powers. This eventually failed as invaders came in and sacked the largest city, stealing valuable pieces of the Mughal Empire's symbols, effectively destroying the Empire.

29. Akbar was considered great because he attempted to unify many different religions like Islam, Hinduism, Zoroastrianism, and Christianity by making himself a divine individual and strong in the eyes of scholars. This unity did not last long as his son replaced the laws with new rules restricting Hindus.

30. The fall of the Mughal Empire was caused by a combination of the land-grant system once again failing at collecting necessary taxes and many local rulers deciding to secede from the Empire and form their on independent regions and governments.

31. Seafaring empires developed methods of increased trade such as joint-stock companies. Along with this they also made sure that their economy was solidly placed within the global economy, this helped them prepare for unforeseen events. They would not get hit as hard as the Ottomans by something such as inflation since they could prepare for it and they were already connected with the global pipeline.

32. The best evidence to support the statement that the East Indies was a center for religious conflict is the fact that it was closely related with the region of the Inquisition. The Inquisition was a war between Spanish Christian and Islamic peoples that attempted to occupy Spain and the Indies, with Spain eventually emerging victorious over what they believed to be an evil faith.

33. They controlled trade by continually establishing monopolies over certain resources that were being moved around the world. The Dutch East India Company was infamous for their methods they used to maintain total control over economies. Just one example is their ability to contract smuggling from under their own monopoly.

34. Its representative of Europe's influence that is expanding because it marks colonial possessions that were located in more eastern areas. As the map explains, European centers were emerging all over places such as Africa, India, the Philippines, and Asia in general.

## Vocab

Tolipane: A turban that most Muslims wear upon head.

Osmanli: A title to describe an Ottoman.

Raya: A title to describe a peasant who belonged to the Christian in the Ottoman Empire.

Madrasas: A location for providing education.

Shah: A title to describe a monarch of Iran that has passed.

Capitulations: The way by which people come to compromise in the form of a surrender.

Tulip Period: A section of time in the Ottoman Empire when tulip bulbs were extremely expensive, demonstrating the power of global economies.

Patrona Halil Rebellion: A revolt lead by Janissaries in the Ottoman Empire that replaced the sultan and demonstrated the problems that the Ottoman Empire was facing.

Fatwa: Legal information as determined by Islamic scholars studying legal texts such as the Quran.

Hidden Imam: Direct descendants of Ali that do not yet exist but will eventually reveal themselves and lead the Shi'ite people.

Shah Abbas: A leader of the Safavid Empire who is known for relocating the capital of Iran to Isfahan.

Guru: A religious leader who teaches followers underneath them. Commonly associated with religions such as Hinduism and Buddhism.

Inflation: The process by which an increased amount of any particular resources causes the resources' to decrease in value compared to other materials.

Batavia: At one point a city that became the capital of the Netherlands and was attacked by ships under the command of Sultan Mataram.

Swahili: A language developed from the Bantu language of Africa which received additional influence from Arabic, Persian, and Portuguese.

Roaring Forties: Strong winds along the 40 degrees latitude line that are associated with trading with the East Indies. 
