#EQs for Chapter 16

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. Le Ray thought that the printing press, the compass, and the new cannons of Europe were the technological innovations that set his new age apart from the rest.

2. Pope Leo X represents the European Renaissance because he enjoyed indulging in the finest arts of the Renaissance and used the money that he generated from being a member of the Medici family.

3. Martin Luther strictly disagreed with the Pope's practice of selling indulgences to the people who had the wealth to spare. Instead Martin Luther determined that people should be able to be religious independently from other since they only need to know that of the Bible.

4. The printing press allowed for protestant ideas and practices to travel faster than they ever could before. It also allowed the religious practices and ideas to be spread without the need for missionaries or physical people to act as verbal transmission.

5. John Calvin agreed with the Lutherans on the subject of indulgences, but their views differed since they believed that salvation was impossible to accomplish during your lifetime. Instead, you were predestined by God to either be sent to Hell or Heaven.

6. The Council of Trent refined the ideas of the Catholic Church but more importantly fixed what they thought were protestant mistakes. They resupplied the Pope as the religious leader of Catholicism but they strove to make the religion more religious and less political.

7. New forms of Christianity were collectively called Protestant yet to be more specific, some of the most popular new Christian branches were Lutheranism and Calvinism. Most of these new faiths resided in Northern Europe in countries such as Denmark and Germany.

8. It can be argued that the Protestant Reformation created conflict in Europe between Europeans because it lead to the Catholic Reformation. The Catholic Reformation was sometimes violent in its efforts to reverse the effects of the Protestant Reformation and while trying to accomplish this task started the Thirty Years' War which took the lives of about eight million.

9. The earthquake represented the beliefs of Europe because their beliefs were breaking and changing just like the Earth's crust. Even though Jesuits and Protestants alike thought the disaster was influenced by God, Europe was headed for change.

10. The witch hunts demonstrated Europe's spiritual beliefs because they took a concept that was previously unknown and made it popular and accepted in order to help explain their problems. In the same way they did this with natural disasters such as earthquakes as well.

11. The work of Copernicus provided substantial evidence that the Earth was not the center of the universe and its popularity around Europe even after being banned by multiple religious powers, demonstrates how Europe was becoming interested in the bigger ideas around them.

12. The Catholic Church reacted to Copernican ideas with hostility because the differed from established methods of thought. After people attempted to deny these new ideas, scientists such as Galileo described that only fools would not believe in these scientific discoveries.

13. They did not intend to disprove Catholicism, they instead sought to explain Catholicism in a logical manner and add information to the faith. The Church did not look at their work in this light but it truthfully how they believed their own ideas.

14. The Deist perspective was that God created the universe as a perfect machine and no longer directly influences it. This means that the scientific laws that researchers discovered would make sense, since God built the universe perfectly and now it runs by its own laws.

15. Robert Boyle was an early chemist who discovered the reactions between various materials while Newton was a physicist that discovered many of the mathematical laws that dictate how our universe operates.

16. Observation and reason played a key role in Francis Bacon's work because he used logic and reason to create the modern scientific method, a process used to acquire and document information about our natural world.

17. Great religious backlash and violence towards their work might concern an Enlightenment philosophers but might also keep them unphased, since most were use to this backlash.

18. The views of early philosophers in Europe was that all of the theological beliefs that existed in Europe should be able to coexist. Voltaire specifically made a criticism of European practice as he described that ideas should not be worth murder.

19. The Netherlands can be called an economic power because they had easy access to a large amount of other peoples, and they made use of this quick access by specializing in manufacturing rather than the production of their own materials, making great wealth in this fashion.

20. The bourgoeisie represent economic transformation in Europe because they began practices such as that of joint-stock companies and the like, further increasing Europe's trading power with the rest of the world.

21. European maps placed Europe at the center of the map while also making the longitude lines parallel so as to make Europe appear much larger than it actually is in reality due to the curvature of the Earth.

22. Family was essential in Europe as many businesses were family owned and when marriages were made business decision went along with these processions hand in hand. In addition members of a family could split the workload of managing a business.

23. Joint-stock companies reflect the new role of the middle class because it allowed for large ventures that could be funded by middle class individuals. They would share the risk of failure but all take their own cut of the profits.

24. It represents the competition between neighboring European states because they all fought for a cut of the trade that moved in and out of Europe. The English expanded their fleets so that they could gain maritime power, more so for the wealth and not the land.

25. The gentry existed below the aristocracy but above the middle class and peasants. Their lives were close to that of the rich and unlike the impoverish situations peasants were forced to occupy.

26. Uprisings were caused by the misery of the peasants of Europe. The aristocracy and the rich kept much of the incomes and profits of the country to themselves and only gave the peasants the bare minimum to survive on, while also demanding the most labor out of.

27. Wealthy women had less freedoms especially in situations such as marriage were families chose marriages specifically in order to maintain the power of the heritage. Poor women however tended to marry whomever they wished among that of poor men.

28. Women were given easier access to higher forms of education due to inventions such as the printing press which made educational books more widely available unlike how expensive they used to be.

29. European children had to endure very harsh conditions depending upon their origin. One tenth of the children of Europe came from unmarried women and these children were generally abandoned and died as a result.

30. The Habsburg family represents the types of leaders in Europe because we can see how this family maintains its power among the state for generations at a time and do not give up this power willingly to new people. It shows the widespread popularity of nepotism in the ruling class.

31. The Peace of Augsburg allowed for the princes who lived within the Holy Roman Empire to choose their own religions that would be practiced in their areas and regions. This brought greater freedom to Germany and encouraged protestants.

32. The Holy Roman Empire represents a more unified Europe because they were so large and generally controlled under a single power like the king. Even though Charles was unable to expand Rome like he wished the empire continued to act as a demonstration of a unified possibility.

33. The English governments desired to be ruled in coordination with the parliament which was meant to monitor the king's power. In France the Estates General was meant to represent the lower powers of France. In both governments these powers had losses as monarchs attempted to keep full control.

34. France was Roman Catholic and England was Roman Catholic for a period until the Church of England was founded buy King Henry VIII. Austria was also Catholic while Prussia, being in Northern Europe, was protestant and held the new and emerging ideas different from that of the Catholics. Russia was also Catholic due to their various connections with Byzantine Empire prior.

35. European nations attempted to balance their own powers against each other by marking down strict borders and using their combined forces to defend against invaders such as the Muslims, helping to connect Europe as a whole.

36. The European wars cause large amounts of people to die and therefore reduced the overall labor capacity of Europe, putting it at a disadvantage against the rest of the world.

37. The wars also inspired improvements to European military and this helped them once again to fend off foreign invaders who weren't a part of Europe.

38. Spain's policies were heavily focused on war and the presence of their religion of Catholicism, forgetting to provide interest in the economy. The Netherlands on the other hand almost exclusively concerned itself with trading and as a result grew popular and wealthy.

39. In order to deal with economic problems cause by these wars European nations collected strict taxes and secured loans from the rich while also importing precious metals from the Americas.

## Vocab

Papacy: The religious leadership of the Catholic Church.

95 Theses: A set of Catholic practices that Martin Luther denounced.

Justification by faith: The process by which people prove their actions of ideas through religious information.

Institutes of the Christian Religion: Government and private organizations which enacted the beliefs of Christianity in any way they could.

Catholic Reformation: An attempt by the Catholic Church to reverse the effects of the Protestant Reformation.

Aristotelian physics: A collection of information based on the studies of the Greek philosopher Aristotle.

Pythagoras: A brilliant mathematical thinker most famous for his discovery of the Pythagorean Theorem.

Jesuits: A group of Catholics who traveled around both Europe and the Americas spreading the Catholic faith of the Pope.

Protestant: A general term used to describe the new branches of Christianity that emerged after the Protestant Reformation.

Scientific Revolution: A period in which many great thinkers made discoveries in the realm of physics and miscellaneous sciences.

Johannes Kepler: A mathematician famous for his work on the mathematics that describes the orbit of planets.

Voltaire: An Enlightenment Philosopher famous for his ideas about European society and how it should be more accepting of the emergence of new ideas and information.

Fluit: A wind instrument commonly played in Europe due to its cheap cost.

Stock exchanges: Locations for investors to put money towards various companies that participate in joint-stock actions.

Little Ice Age: An event in Europe that describes the reduced global temperature that persisted for a length of time and was responsible for Europe's decrease in population and growth. It also increased the irritability of the peasant population.

Deforestation: The act by which humans consume all of the trees in a given area.

Machiavelli: A renaissance artist, philosopher, and politician responsible for the creation of the literary work The Prince which described singular rule.

English Bill of Rights: An agreement that made it mandatory for the king of England to include parliament in most decision making.

Parliament: The ruling council of England which was just below the king yet still had great influence and could veto his decisions in some cases.

Oliver Cromwell: One of the rulers of England appointed by Parliament but turned out to be a poor ruler.

Spanish Armada: Spain's most powerful maritime and military fleet that drained large sums of money from the nation's economy and put a strain on the king.

Glorious Revolution: The revolution encouraged by Parliament in order to remove Charles from his position as king due to his continued use of power to make large actions without the consent of Parliament.

Versailles: The location in which the representatives of Spain's other parties occupied in order to provide their influence in politics. The region was eventually used as a way to dislocate the characters from Spain's politics.

English Puritans: A collection of Puritans who resided in England because of its looser laws regarding protestant beliefs.

John Locke: An English Philosopher that was responsible for writing works that emphasized revolutionist ideas that provided more power to the people, and to the pursuit of knowledge.

Divine rights of kings: The belief that a king retains his rights as such due to his position in the universe as being divinely chosen by a higher power to rule the people below him and the lands he occupies.

Thirty Years War: A series of conflicts between Spain, France, England, The Holy Roman Empire, and various other states due to the emergence of Protestant ideas and the Catholic Reformation's attempt to stop them.

Estates General: The collection of politicians in Spain that were meant to represent the people living in Spain and influence the decisions of the king. 
