#EQs for Chapter 17

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. He represented the relationship because he accepted the Europeans that were coming to occupy his land in trade for their special supplies that would give him an advantage on his own local problems.

2. Europe was quick to remove individuals that they thought did not offer them a valuable service, and they were willing to make insubstantial agreements with the locals that wouldn't hold for long periods.

3. Europeans came from a place of great disease and population. This allowed for Europeans to become very resistant to usually deadly diseases, or more importantly, common diseases. When they arrived in the new lands, Amerindian peoples were not prepared for these new pathogens.

4. It's accurate to state that disease was essential for European conquest because it reduced the American populations by close to two thirds. This put the Americas at a serious disadvantage for fending off the European invaders.

5. The Columbian Exchange allowed for various resources unseen in Europe to spread from the New World. In the same fashion, new resources came from Europe to the New World forever changing the way of life in the Americas.

6. The Columbian Exchange negatively impacted the Americas because it gave Europeans greater reason to enslave the local populations that lived their in order to use their labor. In Europe, the flow of precious metals caused severe inflation that destabilized economies.

7. The horse had the greatest impact in the Americas. It allowed for faster and cheaper hunting and for more efficient military confrontations.

8. The Council of Indies and the viceroys had trouble in keeping tabs and control of the colonies in the Americas due to the great distance between them. This demonstrated the issue that existed within Spain's expansive empire.

9. They focused their energies on Asia and Africa because their initial expeditions to the New World failed to find valuable resources that Portugal thought was worth setting up expensive trading for.

10. The Spanish and Portuguese colonies taxes and political structures were centered around the Church, and therefore the Church quickly grew in power until it became the wealthiest institution of the Spanish and Portuguese new world. The North American colonies of the French and British sent a portion of their taxes back to Europe but they maintained general autonomy while also practicing better political structures with the natives that lived there.

11. The Spanish and Portuguese justified their conquering of the native peoples with the belief that they were required to spread the faith of Christianity and this included to these new peoples, even if it was in a forced manner.

12. They needed to justify their conquests or else new colonists moving to the New World would have a harder time taking advantage of the local populations for cheap labor and this justification even encouraged people to fight for Spain, for Christianity.

13. The Church played a major role in the new colonies and eventually became the largest institution of the New World. Over time though, many priests such as Bartolome expressed their displeasement with the treatment of the Amerindians.

14. After 1600 the mission of the Catholic Church was to grow the cities of the European colonies with less use of the local populations.

15. The encomienda system is tied to the mines of the New World because it allowed for the European mine owners to take advantage of the local Amerindian populations as a form of slave labor to reduce the price of production for precious metals.

16. You could argue that the Spanish mita was slavery because it used free-wage labor in the form of an unjust tax. It differs from the Inca's labor tax because the work accomplished by the Inca labor tax was public service that overall helped to maintain the empire, while the Spanish used the labor for their own private purposes.

17. African slaves were introduced to the Americas because they were more productive and most importantly, more resistant to European diseases, allowing them to live longer.

18. The role of the Catholic Church in the Americas was to help maintain control of the people living there through the use of their faith in the Pope and religion.

19. They tell us that the hierarchy of New Spain was heavily dependent upon ethnicity rather than wealth class and it assumed the superiority of Europeans over non-Europeans.

20. The evidence that they continued to give monopoly rights to specific companies in an attempt to control the trade, but ultimately helped to actually cut ties with their remote colonies since the leader of the colonies began to stop trading with the companies due to their high prices.

21. They sought to put Europeans, specifically Spaniards, at the top of the political and social system while putting Amerindians at the bottom. This is similar to the Indian caste system because people are born into their social position and cannot move between positions.

22. They provided critical power to the Europeans during conquest and this use of their labor for Europe helped to earn them their freedom and in some cases like that of Juan Valiente popularity among society.

23. Amerindian elites and commoners adopted the new European laws and they established connections with Europeans in order to give themselves better advantages in society. This was usually successful through marriage or other agreements.

24. This is true because the Spanish brought themselves, Europeans, their colonization of the New World integrated locals, Amerindians, and their use of foreign Old World labor brought slaves, Africans. All of these cultures formed a rich culture together.

25. The forms of slave resistance that took place includes sabotage, rebellion, malingering, and runaways.

26. Differences between the North and South American colonies include the great amount of time after discovery that it took for Southern colonies to be created, Spanish colonies were connected with vast empires, and finally French and English colonies benefited from the protestant reformation which encouraged new settlers in the Americas.

27. Indentured servants helped to increase the speed of colonization of places such as Virginia by giving people a free trip to the Americas in exchange for a certain amount of free labor in the New World, after which they were free.

28. England appointed leaders in the new colonies but they also gave power to representative groups within the colonies and these representatives were elected by the public, laying the foundation for democracy in the English colonies and for the United States.

29. The English colonies of the Americas were more different from one another than similar because of their belief systems of which one thought that they needed to completely disconnect from Europe in order to properly practice their faith while the others wished to purify the beliefs of the Church of England. These groups were known as the Pilgrims and Puritans respectfully.

30. The southern areas of the English colonies was more dependent on slaves because they were colonized by a mixture of people from England and from the slave prevalent Caribbean island of Barbados.

31. If I was a Native American I would have the best relationship with the colonies of New Spain because they eventually created agreements between the natives and the Europeans and the ethnicities began diffusion. In New France and England however, western expansion eliminated beneficial contact with the natives.

32. The Protestant Reformation encouraged more peoples to move to the New World because they wanted to escape religious persecution and the New World was an opportunity to create new regions specifically for your desired Protestant religion.

33. New France differed from New Spain because the were more interested with the natural resources of the Americas, such as their furs, and they didn't concern themselves greatly with resources such as precious metals, something that New Spain focused on.

34. Philip of Bourbon reformed the economy of Spain and this encouraged New Spain to reestablish trade with its homeland, once again bringing resources from the New World to the Old. His reforms also angered people born in New Spain because he reduced their rights to obtain offices, creating riots among his people.

35. In the same way that Martin Luther King Jr. fought for the rights of African Americans after they had been a part of US society, Tupac fought for the rights of Amerindians because they had established themselves as valuable members of society as well.

36. They were able to better respond to economic and political changes because they had local rulers and representatives that could make quick decisions while other colonies had to wait for instruction from their homelands.

37. The Glorious Revolution helped to make England a more democratic nation because it made it necessary for the king of England to consult Parliament whenever he made political decisions that could effect the state.

38. Like the religious faith of Deism in Europe, many of these European powers sent off initial voyages which carried their politics and ideas with them, but once they reach the Americas they became disconnected from their creator and they began moving along their own path even if they still maintained key aspects such as Spanish Catholicism and English democracy.

Vocab:

Bartolome de Las Casas: A Spanish priest in New Spain who helped to create laws against the poor and unjust treatment and use of the Amerindian population.

New Laws: The new colonies that existed in the Americas eventually grew into politically different groups from their origins and these new politics came with new laws.

Hidalgos: A member of Spanish society which does not hold a high position but generally does not pay taxes.

Quilombos and palenques: Slaves who have run away from their owners and are grouped together. In New Spain these groups rarely survived.

Manumission: The act of a slave owner freeing their slaves.

Creoles: Individuals who are of complete Spanish descent but were born in the Americas.

Mestizo: A person whose ethnicity is a combination of both Spanish and Amerindian.

Mulatto: A person whose ethnicity is a combination of both European and African.

Indentured servant: An individual who has received services in exchange for free labor for a certain period of time.

Seven Years War (French and Indian War): A war between French colonies and New Spain and England which resulted in nearly all of the French territory in the Americas including Louisiana and Canada to be surrendered over to the Spanish and English.

Monopolies: The state of a company when it has complete control over a certain aspect of a market. Monopolies were common in New Spain and Old Spain tried to use it as a method of maintaining control in the New World.

House of Burgesses: A body of elected representatives within English colonies that symbolized the beginning of democracy in the New World.

Gullah: Gullah is a language dialect with African and English roots.

Pilgrims: A Christian branch from England that wished to disconnect itself completely from the Church of England because it believed that the Church of England was still too Catholic.

Puritans: A Christian branch who sought to disconnected Catholicism from government and center it more closely around faith.

Iroquois Confederacy: A Native American alliance of the Seneca, Cayuga, Onondaga, Oneida, and Mohawk peoples.

Coureurs de bois: Frenchmen who lived with Native Americans so that they could learn their language and help French settlers with fur trading with the natives. 
