#EQs for Chapter 18

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. The English provided part of the transportation necessary to get slaves to the New World. In addition, the English were benefiting of the use of slave labor in the New World whilst not taking advantage of it so prominently back in their mother land. The slave trade turned out to be just as risky as other trade though, with the Hannibal losing large amounts of money.

2. Europeans interest in the Americas was renewed after Spain began to pull great amounts of wealth out of the Americas through mines. The Americas weren't all metal profit though, eventually the French took advantage of the Native Americans that currently lived their and bought furs from them to be sold back in Europe for higher profits.

3. James the first was talking about tobacco, and for good reason, as tobacco has very little if any health benefits and yet the trend of its consumption continued to rise, leading to an astounding increase in tobacco farms in the New World, and monopolies to control it.

4. The benefits of chartering companies such as the Royal African Company and Dutch West India Company were that the English and French didn't have to worry about pushing people to the colonies themselves and could let private investors perform the work. Finally, they received annual dues for the monopoly rights which was even better.

5. The Portuguese impact on Brazil was not very vast but it was significant in the small window it affected. The Portuguese made Brazil into one of the most productive farming areas in the world. The way they did this was by growing a new and trending plant called sugar cane which became the most popular plant in the Americas.

6. The Dutch West India Company impacted the north east coast of Brazil by connecting it with the Atlantic Trade System and therefore connecting it to Europe which plentifully consumed sugar and created great profits for both the residents of Brazil and the owners of the company.

7. The expelling of planters of Brazil was important because it allowed for the new peoples to institute cheaper forms of labor, specifically slave labor. This opened up the path for slaves to moved from Africa and shipped to the Americas so as to further increase the profits generated from this insane agriculture.

8. Sugar contributed to the growth of slavery in the Americas by giving plantation owners a reason to want the cheapest labor. Although sugar is not directly connected with slavery, the farming of sugar lead to competition and even though the trade routes were held by monopolies, the producers still had to fight to their sugar on te boats.

9. He meant that racism is not something that just exists for no reason other than pure existence. Instead it has a catalyst somewhere that starts it and fuels it. One of these catalysts in social class discrimination. This is normal because social classes are meant to be discriminated. This means that when Africans were being prominently used for slavery they began being associated with slavery in general.

10. Indentured servants were sometimes preferred over slaves in the Americas because they were less likely to rebel and/or run away from their masters. Indentured servants had assurance that in a certain amount of time they would be able to leave their masters and use their money to acquire land and start a new life. Slaves on the other hand had no hope and therefore were more likely to not mind risking their life to either escape or rebel.

11. African slaves were eventually preferred over indentured servants because they could be obtained on a more consistent basis. In addition they could be acquired in much greater volumes, which was needed by these plantations as they grew and grew and grew until the occupied hundreds of acres of land that all needed to be worked somehow.

12. The two main cash crops of the Americas were sugar cane tobacco. The largest problem was that each of these crops were grown in such an abundance that they eventually lost their value once again.

13. The environmental impacts of plantations on the West Indies includes deforestation which destroyed the landscape and removed lumber from the area while also decreasing wildlife. Along with deforestation, the nutrients in the soils was destroyed and the majority of animals living in the West Indies were European.

14. From the perspective of the Arawak people the arrival of Columbus was a negative event because Columbus quickly began treating natives harshly. Once natives were transformed into slave labor, their population of millions dwindled into thousands and then nonexistent as they were maltreated.

15. The plantocracies were were an example of polarized societies because they demonstrated the stark contrast of the plantation owners with the workers of the plantation. The hierarchy eventually just became and expected norm and that is how it stayed until many years afterwards.

16. Sugar cane is indeed a labor intensive crop, the evidence of that is found in the labor that Europeans used in order to farm. They shipped hundreds of slaves over seas in order to supply the work that was required for these plantocracies to continue.

17. It tells us that slaves played a variety of roles on sugar cane plantations but no matter what role they filled they were always below the free. It also shows how organized these plantocracies were. They created specific methods in order to better ensure that no rebellion arose within the plantation.

18. They were treated very poorly with little amounts of food and shelter. Their only rest was given if they were skilled and not even then. If they failed to meet up to standards they were given punishment such as mutilation or flogging so as to act as an example to others. This is a clear description of how little Europeans thought of Africans and salves.

19. The cassava and maize allowed for more food to be grown in Africa. This is because they are extremely resilient crops that could grow in Africa even with its harsh conditions. The crops represent the Columbian Exchange because it shows resources being introduced to and from different lands.

20. They represent the reward and punishment system because they gave extra power to skillful slaves but the harshly punished slaves with inhumane systems if they did not reach the expectations and above.

21. This quote is explained by the care that it would take to provide for families on a plantation rather than just importing a "nobody" who has no connections and therefore will have generally smoother workflow. This is also explained by how slaves can only start working at a certain age, and before that point women must care for them, taking labor resources away from the plantation.

22. They describe the conditions of blacks in the Americas because they consistently strove to become independent of their masters. Manumission was the official way of a slave gaining his or her freedom, by being gifted their freedom by their previous master. Maroons on the other hand, were what occurred when a group of slaves attempted to flee a plantation and made a group for themselves.

23. The period of seasoning shows us how poor the conditions for slaves were as as much as one third of all of the slaves die within the first few months. The high mortality rate reveals that the slave trade is not as perfect and profitable as it seems since the resources have an unpredictable shelf-life.

24. The social hierarchy of the French colony of Saint Domingue resembles New Spain because the French had different positions of freedom. Not all freedom was equal because whites were given greater freedom than free blacks and white plantation owners given even greater.

25. Capitalism and Mercantilism played great roles in the conquest of the Americas because capitalism inspired people to drive for greater business heights and to compete with one another while mercantilism created competition between different nations as economic success became closer to global success.

26. An individual could make money from a joint-stock company by first buying stock, and then second hoping that the company will perform well so that you might make money or a return on your investment that at least equal to or greater than the initial investment.

27. The mercantilist measures of the French, British, and Portuguese were obviously successful as they all began to compete for the resources and production of the Americas. The French seeming to specialize in furs from native relations while the Portuguese competed with the British for agricultural production and exportation.

28. The slave trade had a very critical impact on Africa because it inspired and instigated new crimes. The most common crimes became people collecting other in order to sell them to slave traders that would bring them to the Americas. People from all walks of life were being kidnapped and put into slavery because of the new incentive with Europeans purchasing labor.

29. The Europeans cared more about their business rather than acting on altruism and trying to help humanity in general or Europe in the long run. Bosman describes how he has no choice but to sell goods such as weapons to Africa, or else he couldn't compete with other companies. He like other Europeans of the time had a disregard for the regions outside of their own.

30. The slave trade that existed along the gold coast was being handled by a large number of independent African kingdoms that once again encouraged for crime to occur since hey would benefit from increased sales of slaves that they could tax. This along with the guns that were being traded for the slaves, the interactions along the gold coast were foreshadowing to put it lightly.

31. First of all Gold Coast Africa had small states that controlled the coast and trade while the Bight didn't even have that amount of regulation. Therefore, kidnapping was much more common in the Bight since slaves could not easily be made from prisoners of war. The two areas varied in their readiness to trade with Europe and this is what gave the Bight the upper hand.

32. Slavery in West Africa was more relatable to the slavery that occurred in eastern countries, as in slaves performed house work and acted as assistance to their masters. In the Americas however, slaves were purchased in mass quantities and were forced to perform excruciating labor for little benefit.

33. The kingdom of Bornu represented European contact with Africa because they were a key player of trade who used the new European weapons as a way to attack their neighbors and to expand their own borders without knowing that by doing this they were instigating the rest of the kingdoms of Africa to also hold up rifles for war with attack and defense against neighbors.

34. It didn't greatly reduce the population of Africa since Africa was already so large but it did have very strong effects on the kingdoms that existed along the Gold Coast as their populations declined. To negate the effects, less women were exported then men, allowing for partial population recovery.

35. The regions involved in the Atlantic Circuit include what is now Eastern America, New Spain, Brazil, Europe, and Africa. Furs and tobacco came from Eastern America, silver and sugar from New Spain, sugar from Brazil, manufactured goods from Europe, and slaves from Africa.

36. The Atlantic Circuit was called the Triangular Trade because it connected the Americas, Europe, and Africa, all of which exported their own important products to each of the others, with the most notable being the slaves that were exported from the Gold Coast of Africa.

37. The impact of new goods in sub-Saharan Africa could not be described as pleasant. From increased demand for slaves leading to kidnapping to increased trade of slaves leading to more weapons getting into the hands of ambitious kingdoms causing great conflict where there otherwise would be very little.

## Vocab

Saint Domingue: A city located in Santa Domingo that was known for its extremely large numbers of slaves that worked the lands surrounding the city.

Hispaniola: An island that resided in the West Indies and belonged to Spanish rule and was the location of many plantations.

Exclusif: A piece of French legislation that described how the French sought to make the exportation of goods exclusive to their colonies for mercantilism.

Dahomey: An African Gold Coast kingdom that heavily relied upon European firearms in order to supply their military, which they used to annex locations such as Whydah.

Middle Passage: The passage that ships had to pass through in order to deliver slaves to the plantation colonies of the Americas from the Atlantic circuit.

Songhai: An ambitious Muslim empire that attempted to expand its border using the newly found funds from European trade to support itself. They eventually failed in their attempts to expand as the weapons supplied to their enemies from European trade crushed their own forces.

Hausa Trading Cities: A city well-known for its special trade of the kola nut which contained large amounts of caffeine.

Bornu: A kingdom that existed along the Gold Coast and like the Songhai empire, attempted to use their newly acquired weapons to expand their borders within Africa. Once again, the succeeded in creating conflict between neighboring kingdoms but accomplished little advancement themselves.

Chattel Slavery: A form of slavery where the slaves is treated as an equivalent to property, meaning that the slaves can be traded, inherited, and treated any way an owner desires since it is their property to do with what they want. 
