#EQs for Chapter 20

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. Twelfth century Japan is considered a feudal society because it consisted of a hierarchy of levels, with each paying tribute to the next above them in some form or another. This included the Emperor who acted as a public figure, the Shoguns who ruled large lands, the Daimyos who were loyal to the Shoguns, and the Samurai who fought for the Daimyos.

2. The Shoguns and the Emperor acted more like loose figures who stood publicly and imitated the idea that they were in control, when in reality the Daimyos and the Samurai were the people with the real power.

3. The actions of the two individuals are similar because they both left their mainland and conquered peoples who were foreign in some regard to their established way of thought. In terms of consequences, they both left their foreign regions devastated.

4. The Samurai were fighting underneath the Daimyos who they were loyal to and the Daimyo used their power and influence to enact public projects such as the building of roads for trade to Kyoto, the Imperial capital of Japan.

5. The new shogunate improved the economic standing of Japan by building trading routes between all of Japan's major cities and establishing maritime routes between the islands. This also increased their political control, because like the Incan the government was able to use faster communication.

6. Japanese Samurai began to change themselves to conform to the new and emerging systems of Japan and this forced them to make use of merchants and trade more so than just war and protection.

7. Japan improved with its contact with Europe because it began to open itself up from its previous isolation from the outside world. This new freedom from isolation brought them new economic opportunities while also increasing the success of Japan.

8. The efforts of the Jesuits in Japan harmed international relations with Europe because the created tensions between converts and non-converts while also giving the Japanese government reason to close off trade with Europe.

9. They were influenced by Confucian ideas when they attempted to decrease the influence that merchants had within society since they frowned upon merchants and their ability to put debts onto people and in some ways hurt as much as heal the economy.

10. The population growth of Japan in the seventeen hundreds influenced society by increasing the amount of labor that leaders had available to them. This in turn made labor cheaper but also put the population in a stronger stance of control than before.

11. The importance of honor is clearly demonstrated in the book on Ronin, as it describes how dishonor leads to even high officials committing suicide out of ritual, but the honor of their followers was stronger as they avenged his death.

12. The economic challenges that the shogunate faced included a clash of beliefs with Confucianism, Christianity, and their native beliefs and also included their disconnection from Europe due to their previously stated Christian encounters.

13. Rice and porcelain was a major economic produce of both China and Japan, rice supplied them with a food source while porcelain was sold by Chinese merchants until China enforced strict trading laws with Europe, and Europe brought their business of porcelain to Japan.

14. The impact that the global economy had on China included a urban population that continued to increase and a flow of precious metals into China that hurt peoples with inflation.

15. The Ming faced economic problems such as a decrease in the value of their currency because new trade with Europe connected their economies and when European prices increased, so did the Ming's.

16. The Ming's political population was plagued by corruption and this corruption lead to many problems among the rural populace which grew angry at the corrupt official poor decision making which put stress on the economy as well.

17. Rural Ming society continually suffered from corrupt leaders and tax collectors who didn't have the government as a whole in mind. The urban centers were a little more successful though as they began trading with Europe and generating wealth from sources abroad.

18. The Manchu were a group of people who lived to the North of China and they eventually were able to gain control of China by first taking over Korea and second receiving an invitation to come into China to help protect against the Japanese.

19. The Dutch were able to secure their favor of in the eyes of the Chinese because they accepted the superiority of the Chinese emperor and they performed the rituals to provide honor to him.

20. In Japan the Jesuits who were trying to convert the local population focused their efforts on the members of the lower classes. In China they focused their efforts towards the elite and had greater success until later periods.

21. Both the Dutch East India Trading Company and the East India Trading Company affected China by bringing in new ideas, the most forceful of these new ideas concerned religion and included Christianity or Catholicism. In addition they connected the markets of the two regions.

22. They were considered successful because Kangxi was able to keep China highly productive by rebuilding civil structures such as roads and aqueducts and then maintaining them. Qianlong also had a succussful government as he was able to maintain Chinese wealth even while he cut off connections with Europe.

23. Like the Mongols the Manchu occupied a very small portion of the population yet they held high government positions and considered normal Chinese people to be below their race.

24. It told Europe that the Chinese were perfectly satisfied with little relations with Europeans and European trader. In fact they found no interest in establishing new connections for trade even after all of the formalities that the British and other Europeans attempted to use.

25. The problems that the Qing faced included their worries of Northern peoples coming back to China and infiltrating the state in order to overthrow a dynasty once again. Along with this they had to resist European influences.

26. The connection that existed between the two large cities was a title that was shared by high ranking officials. In Moscow the leader of Russia was referred to as the csar, which was derived from the great Roman leader Caesar.

27. Siberia was important to Russia because it acted as a home for Russians that appealed to the populace with greater interest than then the open lands. In addition, Siberia provided the Russian economy and people with large amounts of furs.

28. They represent Russian expansion during the time period because they spread far and wide, settling into new towns and villages were they went, further increasing Russia's reach.

29. The Cossacks were an example of Diversity in Russia because they had members from many different regions and this was because they offered protection against foreign invaders, but more importantly distasteful government of elsewhere.

30. War and political and economic transformations put peasants in the position of needing to provide cheaper and more consistent work. Because of this, new laws were enacted that took away peasants rights and made them into members of society closer to that of slaves rather than working people with rights.

31. The Time of Troubles allowed for the long standing Muscovity leaders to be replaced by the more relevant and more common nobles of Russia, or the boyars.

32. The city is like Peter because it changed as he changed. The city specifically changed to conform to European ideas and norms, with houses and structures being built in European styles. In the same way, Peter changed his own style of presentation to mimic that of Europeans as well.

33. Tsar Peter is considered an absolutist ruler because he made decisions without the need to ask for permission from any lower form of government. In addition, he proclaimed that the tsar could make any decision at his will. 
