# The New Power Balance, 1850 - 1900

## New Technologies and the Word Economy

The Industrial Revolution lead to a large number of innovations that all seemed to propel the world economy ever more forward, such as railroads which were primarily used for the transportation of materials, carrying generous amounts of raw and manufactured materials around the world. Then the telegraph allowed for a revolution in communication, although maybe not as earth shattering as the internet and cellular devices, the telegraph allowed for rapid transmission of information across the globe, allowing for new ideas about politics and sciences to spread. Most of these inventions mentioned thus far were only possible due to the steel industry that continually pumped out cheap and strong metal at a rate that made the building ad use of railroads profitable, chemistry also saw some light as explosives made mining simpler. One of the more common and closer to home innovations was the invention of electricity which allowed for a great number of changes from increased manufacturing productivity to lighted cities. Finally, all of these innovations combined contributed to the world trade which brought regional products to international locations while also connecting country's economic ups and downs.

## Social Changes

Some of the changes that were consequences of the industrial revolution and its invention are more centered on the change of mind and social surroundings, which included the rapid increase in populations as food became more prevalent and easily distributable. Along with these new populations arrived the urban environments that are associated with large numbers of people, which would usually lead to increased death rates, but with the success of new research, death rates actually dropped. From the period of about 1850 to around 1900 there existed the Victorian Age which placed males and females into separate social spheres where men were responsible for outside labor jobs, and woman were to run the household. Then the emergence of a working-class group of woman began to occupy jobs in places such as textile mills, while subsequently being denied the ability to work in harsher conditions of foundries and the sort, further dividing the gender gap.

## Socialism and Labor Movements

Karl Marx was also another significant figure of the time for his outcry against the current systems of politics which he believed, as expressed in the communist manifesto, would be overthrown and replaced with his new idea of socialism. Then labor movements gave political rights to all men in various countries, tiding them over from revolutionary predictions of Karl Marx. It should be noted that the political ideas of the anarchist (no government) did not carry well.

## Nationalism and the Unification of Germany and Italy

In case you didn't know, nationalism is the unifying force that brings people together based on their country. Nationalism took many forms, some being associated with language, some being associated with institutions, but these rarely held universally, with the most widely and strongly binding force, the force of revolution existing in places such as France when the commoners were fighting for their rights collectively. An example of the power of nationalism existed in Italy when Italian leaders purposefully used the event of war in order to unify Italy and rally the people together. Another similar event occurred in Germany, where a German chancellor attacked the countries of Austria in an attempt to unify his own states of Prussia, and he succeeded, Prussia and other small states unified their forces and brought into this world the North German Confederation, which was to became the future center and backbone for modern-day Germany. This new and prevalent nationalism acted as the reasoning behind the sensational news and press stories, which made the majority of the state feel prouder to be a part of their country and to support their respective political parties.

## The Great Powers of Europe, 1871 - 1900

After approximately 1870 we begin to see the existence of many large powers in Europe that are at odds with each other, each having in their possession new and awesome weaponry. One of these powers was the newly formed and unified Germany which was controlled by its own system of politics and was, in the respect to the of the region, performing very well as the leaders of Germany began to suppress labor movements while still increasing public opinion through their implementation of legislation that was overall beneficial for the working people. Opposing the German ideas was France and Britain, which both had the fire of liberation fresh in their minds, and therefore they tended to prevent the occupation of their government by non-forward-thinking individuals. Then again, we observe another set of nations, the conservatives, Russia and Austria, which had to deal with widely varying ethnic populations, which further degraded their ability to use nationalism effectively as their populations did not seem to want to fit with each other.

## Japan Joins the Great Powers, 1865 - 1905

The Europeans thought that their region of land was he center of the universe and that everything was happening around themselves. In this section, we learn that this is definitely not true since large powers such as Japan and the United States make a considerable presence. One of the reasons that Japan became so strong so quickly was out of fear of the western world as they observed the problems that Britain caused so easily in China after their industrial revolution, Japan was separated but they were still able to raise up an army and unify large portions of their population, leading to a rebellion against the Tokugawa Shogunate. After the overthrow of the Tokugawa shogunate, the Meiji Restoration began taking action, as they setup outside trading and creating a new government that was based on the imperial government of Germany, and they began building larger armies that were capable of defending Japan from westerners that might pose a threat. Finally, Japan began creating an imperial system that closely resembled those of the European powers, as they began expanding their borders into Korea and other areas in an attempt to better fortify and protect their core region.

## Environment and Technology: Railroads and Immigration

Many Europeans migrated to the Northern Americas for the simple fact that they wanted to. North America was a place that tended to stress the ideas of freedoms, something that wasn't as strongly present in the European counterparts, even though they did abolish slavery before the United States, but we blame that on the South. Anyways, the problem that arose as these Europeans attempted to move to North America, is that there was a combination of too many of them and from different places. The United States and Canada began closing their doors towards immigrants in an attempt to preserve what they believed to be their own culture, in addition to protecting the labor jobs that their citizens occupied. To cap all of this off, railroads and transportation brought the people who could make it over, from farther remote European countries, to more western North America territories.

## Diversity and Dominance: Marx and Engels on Global Trade and the Bourgeoisie

Karl Marx was a German philosopher who worked with Friedrich Engels, another German philosopher, to write and publish the Communist Manifesto which described their ideal society and how the current society was going to lead people to adopt the new one. The book became extremely popular and was spread around the world, eventually becoming the doctrine on which some governments would be based. The book focusses on the classes of society and how they all relate to and associate with each other. The poor live on the bottom of society in large numbers while the rich are able to live in the few higher social ladders. The rich take advantage of the poor in order to achieve their goals. Marx proposed that private property should be abolished and the analysis that they provide on social and economic structure clearly label the bourgeoisie as the problem that must be dealt with for people to live on in a better system.

## Conclusion

The Industrial Revolution lead to large changes in the way people thought about their governments, and in many respects it allowed for the ideas of the enlightenment and more to be spread around the globe at unprecedented speeds. Contrary to the usual trends as the populations increased in Urban centers, death actually decreased due to the new technologies that were finding the light of research and the light of academia. And, of the reasons that these inventions were able to succeed the way that they did was due to the success of their states, which all benefited from a sense of nationalism that had never been seen before.

# Reflection

words {

Technology: Technology was a key part of this chapter because it was the cause that lead to effects such as European pseudo domination of the globe. It also lead to many reforms in the way that people worked in factories as they became slightly safer.

Nationalism: Nationalism was critical in the movement of every country in this chapter. Some of the big countries to pay attention to are Italy and Germany, as both of the countries understood the benefits of an extremely nationalist population and the easiest methods to build nationalism, create a common enemy.

Rise: The rise is a little more specific, mostly focusing on Japan and the United States, but that doesn't take away from what these emerging countries created. They set an example that took common power away from the European regions that were to believe that the universe was centered on their area of the world. Countries such as Japan started off in disarray, but after observing the tendencies of the Europeans, quickly fixed their issues and prepped themselves for modern advances. 

}
