# Striving for Independence: Africa, India, and Latin America, 1900 - 1949

## Sub-Saharan Africa, 1900 - 1945

Africa was currently being controlled by a mass of Europeans such as the British who numbered in the hundreds and always seemed to occupy official positions while the indigenous peoples were forced to take the lower positions. In terms of economic development, the colonies had very poor conditions not only for workers but for any merchants as well, and this arose due to the high demands that remote European powers had for the collection of resources, but not wanting to actually pay out the funds necessary to support the workers who were collecting said materials. Africa was quickly introduced to foreign religions that were generally very keen on being exclusively practice, such as Christianity, and Islam later arrived and became fairly popular due to its customs resembling something closer to those that already existed in Africa, and its promotion of literacy. Eventually the African National Congress was founded with the help of many Western lawyers and journalists, except that it didn't gain much traction until some time after the second world war.

## The Indian Independence Movement, 1905 - 1947

India was overall a very fertile area of the world and even though it experienced famines, the population of the continent was still able to continue increasing, the people of India are somewhat known for their use of numerous classes that make up the social hierarchy and groups such as women gained almost no more rights with the invasion of British rule. Like we have seen before, the invasion of a foreign power, European powers tend to be the most popular and the most common, brings about general unrest within the subjugated peoples, and this can lead to any number of things, in India this was increased nationalism and a movement towards independence. Mahatma Gandhi was an extremely influential character in India because he was very educated and he kept India from sliding into a long period of violence, something that it very much had to worry about avoiding. Over time Britain began submitting to the Indian National Congress and the Muslim League, which allowed for people such as Jawaharlal Nehru to begin grabbing at influence of the people and encourage forward thinking ideas for India, such as industrialization. Then independence was given and Britain receded but India quickly broke into a secular, mostly Hindu region, and the Islamic state of Pakistan.

## The Mexican Revolution, 1910 - 1940

Mexico had already been known for a long period of time to be under consistent pressure from the United States, and it should be noted that the gradient between different classes of people in Mexico were extremely prevalent and were one of the reasons that the country had such a hard time moving forward, as the poor were poorer and the rich were richer. The government of Mexico was primarily being controlled by the rich and this gave little representation for the majority and it just served to make people angry. Emilio Zapata was a peasant leader that took advantage of the anger of the peasants for being forced into the position that they occupied, and he lead small uprisings that eventually created the displacement of the original president and the reaction of the United States (Woodrow Wilson). The revolution was slowing down but the formation of the PNR or National Revolutionary Party was able to bring peasants and the common person back into the spotlight, as they once again gave the poor at least some voice in their country. After these changes the United States began interfering much less in Mexico's affairs, as is demonstrated when the government of Mexico seized the oil companies and the U.S. decided to not "come to the rescue."

## Argentina and Brazil, 1900 - 1949

If we shift our focus over towards Argentina and Brazil we will see that the environment of the countries changed and specifically Argentina was notable for its adoption of industrialized technologies such as trains and railroads that effectively altered the fashion in which the state produced and exported resources, leading to the state being primarily controlled by the rich. After the first world war began in Europe, trade was nearly all cut off from South America, but after the war the cut off turned out to be a blessing in disguise as eventually trade resumed and profits were put towards the country's industrial efforts. When the depression hit, Brazil recovered by the hands of a brilliant leader and politician named Getulio Vargas, who was strongly responsible for the industrialization of Brazil and its movements towards success among the powers and complete independence from its past colonial influences, created a new constitution and then revoked it later (oh no). Later, Brazil underwent yet another uprising and this time a fascist leader likening himself to the Nazi Party was introduced, and although it made quick improvements, it was eventually overthrown again.

## Diversity and Dominance: A Vietnamese Nationalist Denounces French Colonialism

It's important to point out that the revolutions and drive for independence we see throughout this chapter was not an exclusive ordeal to specific regions and was commonly characterized with violence, unlike what occurred in India with Gandhi. The French had previously moved into Indochina but they had accomplished something that many natives did not tend to agree with, they revolutionized the government and the economy but made conditions tougher for the natives as they were *encouraged* to work for little pay on plantations. With the changed systems, the French accidently created their own space for downfall as the new French educated population began realizing how different their society was from the liberty discussed concerning France. The letter in this section gives us insight into the disregard that the French had for giving their colonies the same rights as their homeland.

## Environment and Technology: Gandhi and Technology

All across the globe people were chasing the opportunity to make their country successful by encouraging the movements towards industrialization, but Gandhi of India had different ideas and instead did everything he could to appear like a commoner. One of the key symbols that Gandhi used was the spinning wheel because he believed that it was once a key part of the Indian culture and of the country as a whole. But a very interesting part about Gandhi was that although he wanted to resist industrialization and the materialism that was commonly associated with such industrialization, he persisted to wear a watch and to use the modern forms of communication in order to spread his ideas and make his efforts known.

## Conclusion

All of the countries that were discussed in this chapter were all heavily influenced by a desire to industrialize, if you exclude the following behind Gandhi, and they all had leaders that seemed to push the industry forward only so far before falling and leaving the governments and systems in a pit once more. Nationalism was becoming prevalent all around the world as the countries began separating themselves from their previous rulers and they began creating specific cultures that their people could identify with and provide their backing towards. In Mexico their was a long period of violence between the common people and their corresponding few rich members of society that were taking advantage of and providing little comfort to the poor. Mexico was able to generally stabilize, while Brazil and Argentina continued to grow in turmoil.

# Reflection

words {

Decolonization: Decolonization was a consistent theme throughout this chapter as each country was trying to separate itself from previous ties. This ranged from Indochina and Vietnam trying to push the French occupation out because it looked like an invasion to the South American colonies trying to cut off their dependence on the outside empires.

Conflict: The chapter was also characterized by conflicts because even though individuals such as Gandhi tried to find non-violent measures to take to accomplish ones goals, they still had to experience conflicts such as the tension that existed between Muslims and Hindus in India, eventually leading to Pakistan splitting from the region.

Local: An important part of these various events in which independence was gained was the existence of local governments that could handle standing on their own now. Countries such as India and Sub-Saharan Africa were able to handle it fairly well and India even handled a conflict between faiths. While in places such as Mexico the road to independence was bumpy and in Brazil and Argentina, their was very little success with the new governments.

}
