#EQs for Chapter 28

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. Some of the factors that lead to new hostilities between European powers included the growing strength of Germany on multiple fronts, but primarily at sea where it created new competition between itself, Britain, and France. The other factor was that the Ottoman Empire was losing its powerful position and this was making it look more and more like a target for other powers to move onto.

2. The Young Turks sought to cure the "sick man of Europe" by disposing of the current sultan of the Ottoman Empire and by forcing the creation of a constitution similar to those of the other European countries. They also wanted to see the rise of a centralized ruling power and the "Turkification of ethnic minorities."

3. Alliances, rivalries, and nationalism all had their own important effects on the beginning of World War I. Alliances between the various European nations were meant to act as a way to protect them from each other in the case of tensions but what it really did, was pit groups against each other. Rivalries began emerging as countries such as Germany began striving towards greater success and eventually made them a fear of others. Finally, nationalism acted as the force that kept certain ethnic groups and nations put up against one another.

4. The decline of the Ottoman Empire really helped to spur the explosion of World War I because it left the region open as a target for the other powers to gain control of that area and therefore the upper hand on their opponents.

5. The Balkans helped to cause World War I one by creating multiple smaller skirmishes between their various states which lead the larger alliances to become involved in greater and more serious affairs with one another.

6. The two events are both similar in the fact that they are amazingly amplified from what they would generally have been. The assassination of the archduke would usually have been a fairly localized affair and would have failed to capture the attention of other nations. The death of a single individual under a cruel government would have just as easily been looked over. But, both of these events were instead highly viewed and were used to start larger movements than just themselves.

7. The triple entente was formed as a result of the fear that the British, French, and Russians had of a European war erupting. And in many of the same ways, the triple alliance was formed for the same reasons, as the other countries of Europe and the Middle East were just as worried of being left alone in the case that a war was started.

8. The European did not initially think anything great of the war but instead saw it as a quick way to boost the morale of their soldiers and of their people. But, as is observed today, the war was on track to become something much more deadly and much more bloody than it had first appeared to the inside observer.

9. The war turned out to be extremely brutal as large numbers of people from both sides of the war were being killed on the battlefield. The war was not quick and painless but was actually long, drawn out, and very painful. The participants were equally prepared to fight one another.

10. The machine guns and submarines had immense effects on the position of the war. Machine guns were basically the source and cause for the use of trench warfare, as guns couldn't be carried across a long battlefield but once they were set up they could mow down countless numbers of opponents. Submarines on the other hand were able to successfully prevent the passage of any boats as they launched missiles in other ships.

11. There was a wide variety of effects on the European economy due to the war. One of the most significant of which was the increased demand for weaponry and munitions which gave everyone in the country jobs and was able to help provide food and rations to even the poor of the country.

12. The war had severe consequences on the European colonies and their respective economies as the European powers began demanding large amounts of resources at a break neck pace, all while lowering the prices and paying up even greater taxes than they had to before the war had started.

13. The war gave women many jobs that they otherwise would never have been able to attain. The jobs were generally considered to be only temporary but their effects were not, as women were now being seen as somewhat equals since they could offer similar work to men.

14. World War I was definitely beneficial for the United States in a few ways: the first of which was by bringing large sums of wealth to United States' businesses that were invested in war genre productions of materials. In addition, the war created new jobs for women and African-Americans as white men went to fight.

15. They acted as examples of the multiple ethnicities that existed within the Ottoman Empire because they both lead armies that existed out of the previous rule of the Turks, and they had origins as Arabs, adding ethnic mix into their rule.

16. The Balfour Declaration acted as the basis and foundation for the present day Israeli and Palestinian conflict because it openly gave preference of support to the Israeli people even though the region was not supposed to be under British meddling in the first place, creating more tensions between the Israelis and the Palestinians.

17. The war inspired regime change because it quickly demonstrated the weakness of the Russian state and the public was quick to place the blame upon the current system of rule and the leaders who decided to use it as their form of keeping the populace under their control. People began starving and as we know from previous experience, hungry people get angry easily. French Revolution Hint Hint.

18. The Mensheviks were very interested in adopting a system of democracy that resembled something much closer to the European states of the West, but the Bolsheviks were instead more focused on creating a system that likened itself to the Communist ideas.

19. They were less likely to support those individuals because those people were in support of a system that was strictly according to the communist ideas, while the Mensheviks actually wanted something closer to a democracy.

20. The February Revolution was a lot more similar to the French Revolution than the October Revolution, this is because the February revolution was focused on taking land away from the big land owners and giving it to peasants, similar to the redistribution of the French Revolution.

21. The German submarines that were being deployed in an effort to make Britain crumble through a lack of supplies and support eventually pushed the United States to join in the war effort, which eventually created the downfall of the German armies.

22. The United States practically sealed the fate of the war as they were bringing up to two hundred and fifty thousand soldiers to Europe, effectively smothering out any German resistance that could have stood a chance against the Europeans alone.

23. The greatest impacts the war had were on two different fronts. First was the dislocation of countless Europeans who were involved in the war and suddenly became refugees. The second was the new method of warfare that was introduced, as the building of trenches and sitting and waiting became common practices with the invention of the machine gun.

24. Their peace were generally ineffective at their attempted task because they more than not, created even greater tensions in Europe. Not only did they leave many hurting countries unsatisfied with their compensation, they left the German people furious that their country was being crippled.

25. The Treaty of Versailles was really considered a massive and utter failure because it only served to leave Germany open to a new radical leader that could control the anger of the people of Germany who were extremely distressed over the fact that their country now crippled.

26. He called the New Economic Policy that because he believed that one of the most important things to accomplish was the prevention of private property and the policy permitted private property and prevented the government from being able to take complete control of the economy and the people.

27. The period after the war was considered an ephemeral peace because it really only achieved in angering the members of the countries who lost the battle, while leaving the people of the winning countries to have to sit and attempt to recompose themselves after severe losses, excluding the United States.

28. Before the emergence of World War I, China was effectively weak and sickly as a nation of its size. It attempted to institute reforms and new policies to strengthen the government and the people, but really those reforms left the government open to corruption. While in Japan, the government was successfully strengthening the entire nation and they were making advances on China since they knew they easily could.

29. The Twenty-One Demands effectively highly the great differences between China and Japan at the time before World War I because Japan was generally asserting their dominance over China. China being the size it is, it's defeat and submission demonstrated the weakness of China and the evolution of Japan as a new power.

30. The narikin,the mobos, and the mogas all represented the conflict between modernization and the old and traditional ways because it effectively shocked the traditional thinkers as the narikins were wuick to spend money in the new economy, and the mobos and mogas adopted the new cultures of the West.

31. They all represent the conflict between the cultural traditional and new modernizing values that were emerging in China because they were all involved in replacing the armies with modern technologies. But the issue that arose was that the armies continued to pursue old techniques.

32. It is definitely fair to label the mandate system as the Europeans' attempt to establish and maintain their imperialist ideas because it effectively put out the image of freedom without giving up control. For example, in the Ottoman Empire, European powers decided to put the Ottomans as a mandate but they never really wanted to hand over and give up control for fear that another power would take the region.

33. They were both similar people in that they were ruthless in their efforts to make changes to their respective governments and people. Mustafa Kemal took first hand control of the changes and pushed Turkey towards modernization at a break neck pace, while Chiang pushed out the majority of the previous systems and instituted his own in their place.

34. He could easily be referred to as the father of modern Turkey because he was the one who worked to hard to push Turkey towards modernization as was previously stated, he ruthlessly dropped out old systems that existed and put in his own in order to make change happen.

35. Automobiles had a much greater impact on the urban areas of the world as they removed the pollution a manure from the streets and they allowed for the rapid transportation of not only resources, but people as well, and on a local level nonetheless.

36. The evidence that exists to support that claim is not often referenced in the text book but according to other various sources, many Armenians still have records of the treatment of their people during this time period as they were killed and massacred.

37. Wilbur and Orville Wright were examples of the technology of the twentieth century because their realization that man made flight was even a possibility was extremely ground breaking and was what lead to further advances later. The Jazz Singer was also a "twentieth century breakthrough" because it existed solely for entertainment and not out of necessity for war.

38. His discoveries and advances in the theory of relativity were considered extremely unnerving because they challenged common thoughts, practices, and ideas about the world that was held by most. It was indeed far more theoretical than had ever been seen in the world before this point in time.

39. Margaret Sanger's ideas were likely to be some of the most controversial because they concerned the rights of women and the rights of people who are not yet "alive." The controversy that still exists today should stand as a testament to its overall controversy.

## Vocab

Women's Christian Temperance Union: A large organization of women that was devoted to creating social reform by utilizing Christianity.

Kibbutzim: An Israeli communal farm.

Zaibatsu: Companies that were made of large numbers of people but who held large amounts of power from the Meiji period of Japan up until the World War I.

Max Planck: German physicist who discovered that the atom accepts energy and emit energy in specific amounts and not as a varying stream.

Emile Durkheim: A sociologist who concluded that "there are no religions that are false. All are true in their own fashion."

Charles Edauard Jeanneret: An architect that described some of the first skyscraper designs that maximized efficiency and minimized ornamental appeal as a sacrifice.

Frank Lloyd Wright: One of the Wright brothers, and the co-inventor of the first man controlled flying aircraft.
