#EQs for Chapter 27

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. The Suez Canal had great economic benefits for the British Empire because they already had large trade investments and profited heavily from the reduced trade times, while Egypt, who contributed most of the money and the labor, lost in the economic battle and benefited little.

2. The parts of the world that the expansion of New Imperialism had the most effect on had to include Africa, Asia, and other non-industrialized regions. The imperialists themselves include Germany, French, Britain, Russia, Japan, and the United States.

3. The New Imperialism was more than just a land grab because the imperialists actually sought to occupy and reorganize the territories that they conquered in order to better integrate them into the global economy and become suppliers of much needed resources.

4. In Latin America imperialist empires wished to occupy new territory for the benefit of resources, while in Africa they occupied the territory, primarily so they could abolish slavery, that might present a threat to their own laws.

5. New Imperialism is associated with not only expansion but with reorganization of the thought of the new lands. The Qing expansion was less concerned with changing the thoughts of their new regions, but instead just collecting taxes and income from them.

6. It lead to each European nations becoming extremely concerned with maintaining their power ratio against any other European state which might pose a threat to the balance of the nations.

7. They acquired the new regions by taking advantage of the price reduction associated with building an army after the arrival of the Industrial Revolution, and the most powerful section of the European arsenal was generally their navy, perfect for taking smaller islands that could not easily oppose them.

8. Women from imperialist nations were responsible for going to the new colonies and marrying colonists so that the mother country could begin occupying the new region with people who were more likely to be loyal to the mother country rather than have the region ruled by the indigenous population.

9. This attitude lead to the western nations concluding that the colonies should be able to easily cover their own local costs, but on top of that, should be able to make a profit for the mother country.

10. Nationalism is very important for imperialism because it allows for the colonists that move to a new region to maintain their loyalty to their mother country, this doesn't include new nationalism though, the unification of peoples in the new region, which would have the opposite of the desired effect.

11. The depression of the 1870s lead to new imperialist merchants becoming extremely concerned with the want to secure their own sources of cheap raw materials in the new and conquered nations that were becoming foreign occupied.

12. They helped the European dominate the areas like Africa and Asia because it decreased the time Europeans needed to take to prepare for their invasion, but more importantly it allowed for their forces to be in almost consistent communication with one another, allowing for fast coordination and domination.

13. The battle is a clear example of this disparagement because we see the British on one side of the battle, taking very little effort to sweep down the enemy forces with rifles, while the African forces were attempting to fight on horseback, at a heavy disadvantage.

14. If the population of Europeans in the new colonies were to low they were subject to being overthrown by the local population, but if they continued to bring large numbers of Europeans to the new lands, the new regions could gain their powers and be able to easily sustain and protect themselves from locals.

15. The make up of most colonial administrations generally was composed of a governor and his various other staff, some tax collectors, magistrates, with a small army to help try and keep order in the new region and for the new government.

16. Cooperation of the old rulers was critical to colonial early success because the local population that was now under new rule was much more likely to accept orders and commands from an individual that they can relate and liken themselves to, while a European leader would not be looked upon so kindly. And, the new governments were not wealthy enough to pay out salaries for their European officials.

17. They relied on two separate indigenous elite because they took advantage of the power and the say of the old elite while they chose specific locals to educate and become the new educated elite of the indigenous peoples and to replace their older counterparts and leaders.

18. The arrival of white women further segregated races of the new regions in places such as Africa and Asia because even the local were subordinate to the new women, and women exercised powers in an attempt to maintain the intricacies and proper way of their mother country.

19. Before this time Africa was being ruled by a combination of various leaders scattered about, until the "scramble" in which European powers decided to invade Africa and once they had easily accomplished the task, they began splitting Africa up into territories for each European power.

20. Egypt decided that they wanted to industrialize and to change their country but that costs money, so they then decided to borrow large amounts of money from European investors, until they could no longer pay them, in which case the Europeans were convinced to occupy the region to secure their investments.

21. Egypt was so heavily influenced by foreign powers that it really could not be stated that Egypt was able to make their own decisions as many of their decisions were being handled by internally placed powers, such as British military strength.

22. The purpose of the Berlin Conference was to make the invasion of Africa and the conquering of its regions more organized by the European powers, and to adequately split the area up among the European powers that chose to effectively participate in the invasion and conquering.

23. Equatorial Africa was nearly uninhabited and had very little opportunity for tax collection and the like. West Africa was previously characterized by amazing trade, which lead to the Europeans taking control of the already existing infrastructure. Finally, the Gold Coast was just overall profitable.

24. South Africa attracted many, many Europeans immigrants due to the fact that not only did Southern Africa have great land for farming on, but they also had numerous deposits of extremely valuable resources such as diamonds and gold, things that nearly every European was up for claiming.

25. There was initial conflict between the British settlers and the Afrikaners because the British were slowly pushing on the Afrikaners' borders, but this was pushed over the limits of the Afrikaners temper when gold was discovered in the region, and British peoples flooded into the area.

26. The colonial rule of this region was different then that of Canada and Australia because the region really didn't care to stand on its own politically, relying on their mother country, eventually leading to their defeat.

27. They responded in a few different ways, some of them accepted the Europeans with outstretched arms, as they let the Europeans deal with local enemies and they benefited from sending their children to European schools to get a European education. On the other hand, the pastoral peoples of Africa generally fought intensely back against the Europeans, and therefore were slow to receiving European benefits.

28. It demonstrates that the people of Russia during Russian expansion felt justified in their treatment of the conquered peoples because they didn't believe that the new peoples had the culture enough to be able to adequately represent themselves.

29. In Southeast Asia and Indochina, the European imperialists had a substantial impact as the brought in foreign crops and reallocated the region's purpose to primarily serve Europeans interests and this generally the establishment of large agriculture in the new regions.

30. The United States didn't require large armies behind them, as when they annexed the islands of Hawaii, American settlers just started occupying the island and the natives had very little they could or would do to stop them, as Americans established ports and other amenities.

31. They were dependent on industrialized nations because they generally only exported large amounts of raw materials and almost completely relied on manufactured imports from industrialized countries for all of their needs. This made them an important focus for imperialist empires which wanted to take advantage of the cheap resources.

32. They avoided territorial acquisition because the Latin American countries were already establishing railroads and other modern techniques that would exclude from the barbarian genre of people.

33. An agreement that was forced upon the Cubans to accept the United States as a power that could intervene, this acted as a demonstration of European and American policies collectively towards the not as industrialized nations that they sought to conquer and use to their own advantage.

34. The New Imperialists differed from the previous time of conquerors and empire builders in that the new forces attempted to strengthen their own empire by building up the territories that they acquired, not trying to oppress and push the inhabitants down but integrate them.

35. It could be considered an anti-imperialism document and policy because it decided that the United States wished to act as a strong protector for the entire Western Hemisphere in an attempt to not only protect the nations that could not protect themselves, but to also protect large powers from occupying and creating competition with them.

36. The Spanish-American war is a better example of imperialism because not only was the war deliberate, it was handled quickly and effectively, like how most imperial wars were conducted. The Panama canal was not very imperial since the land was retained by the Panamanians. And the annexation of Hawaii was not conducted by the state.

37. The Aswan Dam was an example of imperialism because the British were allowing for the elites to maintain some power, but the Europeans were really the ones who were in control. The Suez Canal was an example of imperialism because like the Aswan Dam, it was related to the Europeans attempting to maintain an investment, while they still gave visual political power to the Egyptians. The Panama Canal was an example of imperialism because it was only possible through the intervention of the United States, effectively making them the unofficial imperial leader of the region.

38. The connection that exists between Darwinism and Imperialism is that Darwinism favors the member of a population that is the most advanced and has the greatest advantage, while imperialism performs nearly the same job as technologically advanced countries conquer and reproduce their own advanced thoughts in the place of the regions that fell behind.

## Vocab

Falciparum Malaria: A strain of Malaria in Africa that was responsible for many European deaths and kept them fearful of occupying the region until deterrents were discovered.

Quinine: An anti-malaria drug that was used by Europeans to help protect themselves in Africa. The drug was produced in large quantities in Southeast Asia and India. 

Protectorates: A dominant nation that agrees to provide protection over another region, but not agreeing to actually see the region as being a part of the larger nation.

King Leopold II: A king of Belgium that decided to invest his "personal fortune" in an American Journalist in his attempt to open Africa up to external powers commercially.

Natives Land Act: A policy passed in Southern Africa that limited Africans to specific reservation and prohibited them from owning their own lands, further generating a gradient between races in the region.

Free-trade Imperialism: A form of imperialism that discourages for the people of the newly conquered regions to trade with whomever they see fit, and only with the mother country.
