#EQs for Chapter 29

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. The three dimensions included countries being lead by constitutional governments that would be controlled by politicians, world order was very dependent on the cooperation of the separate empires, and finally a global economy that was based on the ideas of capitalism.

2. The objective of the industrialization of Russia was not to try and produce large amounts of goods and services for their common people but to instead increase the power of the state as a whole when compared to the other countries, and to increase the power of the communist party.

3. The Five Year Plans pushed Russia through a quick period of great economic development and industrialization where cities were being created, armies were being raised, and infrastructure was being produced.

4. He exemplified the ideas of a totalitarian dictatorship because he continually pushed any opposing competition out of his way, and in addition to this, he actively prevented the grouping and existence of resistance to his way of thought. The gulags and NKVD are both examples of his brutality.

5. Women were treated surprisingly well in Soviet Russia compared to other regions around the world. This is most likely due to ingrained communist principles that stressed the importance of equality and the responsibilities of each member of society contributing their own.

6. Some people were in support of his leadership not only because of the massive amounts of propaganda that he produced, but also because his policies of collectivization benefited the poor. The kulaks on the other hand had large amounts of land, and were not keen on giving it up.

7. The depression was caused by a collection of two events, the first was the collapse of the New York stock exchange which created despair in the US, but the second event was the globalization of the world economy which connected the downfall of one country to everyone else.

8. The economic conditions really were able to contribute to the rise in the popularity of fascism in these European countries because the common person was living a very poor standard of life and when strong leaders promised better futures with them, people wanted to believe it.

9. The Depression caused Latin American countries to switch their governments back to dictatorships in their efforts to try and reestablish the prosperity that had one time existed when the European countries were interacting with their economies.

10. His goals for Italy were to establish a fascist government and to instate himself as the supreme leader, both of which he accomplished with general ease. And he also lowered living standard but produced more jobs in the process.

11. The Mein Kampf was considered to be a signal of war because it proposed the Germany should attempt to conquer and assimilate all of their surrounding people. Adolf Hitler wanted to accomplish this goal by taking power of the government and pushing out Germany, and he accomplished this, eventually creating the Third Reich Empire.

12. Their immediate effects on Germany included a rapidly increasing standard of living for the German population, jobs for nearly everyone in the state, and on the not so good side, a loss of general liberties for the betterment of the state as a whole.

13. Nationalism was critical in the success of not only Hitler but Mussolini and Japan as well because it was able to get a majority of those countries respective populations to be unified and to fight towards outside cultures and "the enemy."

14. Both Hitler and Mussolini were considered to be fascist dictators because they ruled their country by brutally eliminating or removing any competition that might oppose them or try to gain an opposing following to the own party and ideas.

15. Appeasement was caused in large part due to the "weak democracies" that existed within Europe that were occupied by politicians who did not care to fight with other countries, and were more inclined to compromise to improve their chances for reelection. Germany took advantage of this and slowly began gaining a greater foothold in Europe.

16. The Neiville Chamberlein was an example of appeasement because it preyed on the British prime minister's belief that people were trustworthy, and guess what, they weren't. And the Munich Conference was an example of appeasement because Hitler got what he desired just by showing aggression.

17. The League of Nations helped lead to the Second World War because it effectively crippled the German economy and made the German people suffer. Thus, they were not all to happy, and this lead them to be open to new radical leaders such as Hitler that promised a brighter future.

18. The pact was hypocritical to Hitler's views because Hitler, like the rest of Eastern Europe, was very suspicious of Russia. They also contradicted Hitler's views because he believed that the slavs were inferior compared to the Aryans.

19. Japan invaded China because they first of all, saw China as being a weak nation that could not support itself and succeed, but secondly they wanted to ensure their own powers in the region and the protection of their main homeland.

20. Communism in China differed from the communism present in the Russia because it believed in and practiced the redistribution of land to the peasants, while in Russia land was just taken from everyone and was considered to be public area for the benefit of the state.

21. Mao's forces differed from the forces of Chian because the communist forces were focused on practicing guerrilla tactics of war in order to antagonize the opposition without meeting in head on confrontations.

22. I don't believe that his policies would be enough to satisfy those women who are looking for complete equality, but they might be supportive of his advances because his communist ideas and his kindness towards the peasantry, including women, would act as a good step in the right direction.

23. The Long March could definitely have been considered to be emblematic of the communists struggle and perserverance in China because they failed to be completely eliminated, even when the Chinese government believed that they had finally rid themselves of them.

24. The Japanese were permitted to continue their expansionist policies because the rest of the world in terms of global community were too busy trying to handle themselves in the Western world to be able to deal with Japan as well.

25. The Japanese invasion of China during this time period was not very successful at all, with the Chinese continuing to resist and move back until the Japanese were being burdened with the war instead of making a profit from it.

26. That phrase is easily representative of the treatment of the Chinese that was endured from the Japanese nation which during multiple instances, invaded China, destroyed villages, raped women, and killed the civilians.

27. The Blitzkreig is a demonstration of the differences in the war tactics that were used in World War I and World War II because during World War I, trench warfare with little movement was common, while Blitzkreig was famous for its quick vast sweeps.

28. The Battle of Stalingrad was the most significant battle of World War II because it finally sealed the fate of the war and ensured that Germany was not going to be able to make a comeback. The Battle of Midway comes in close second due to it having the effect of Stalingrad somewhat on Japan instead of Germany.

29. The combatants viewed their opposition as being alien and such a foreign being that they did not have to feel guilty fighting them because they were being dehumanized.

30. The two-front war was catastrophic for the Germans because after they attempted to push out towards Russia and take it over for good, they failed and were soon after being crushed by the onslaught of Russian forces after the winter thawed.

31. The Americans used the atomic bomb on the Japanese in order to force them to comply and surrender on the terms that they would stop their system of monarchy. The bomb was also dropped because the Americans were worried a Japanese war might cost many American lives.

32. China's civil war foreshadowed the Cold War conflict between the United States and Russia because it demonstrated the success and victory of Communism, even in the face of much large foes, such as the support of the Western nations.

33. The death toll of the second world war lead to an increased awareness of the views of the civilians and it lead to global mourning, as nearly every family in the world of industrialized nations felt the impact of the war.

34. They improved the world in a variety of ways after the end of the war, but one of the most influential ways that they helped was through increased life expectancy and cures for common illnesses and products such as antibiotics emerged.

35. They actually failed to decrease the morale of the countries that they meant to decimate and dishearten and instead usually lead to an increased sense of urgency and resentment for their nation's respective enemy.

36. World War II improved the conditions for women by giving them opportunities to take up jobs that they would have otherwise never been given due to the common belief at the time that they should be bound to their homes.

37. World War II improved racial relations in the United States because after many white men were going off to fight in the war, their was a large labor vacuum, and this was quickly being filled by African Americans, giving them greater respect in the US.

38. World War II had a very negative impact on the environment all over the world as the countries at war demanded more and more materials for their war efforts, leading to new mines, mills, and lumber collecting regions.

39. The concentration camps and the Holocaust horrified the outside world and in the occupied countries outside of Europe, the Germans reduced political stability by enacting methods in which they destroyed entire villages in the case that a single German was killed.

## Vocab

Black Thursday: The day that the New York Stock Exchange fell after large numbers of shares were traded in a short period of time. 

New Deal: New policy to lessen the aftermath of the depression for civilians.

Manchuria: Region of China that was invaded by Japan and remained under Japanese rule for years.

Guomindang: Chinese capitalist government that was heavily opposed by the communists of China.

Anti-Comintern Pact of 1936: Pact between Germany and Japan that promised to prevent communism in either state.

Rhineland: A region that was near France and was conquered by X, but that region was never stopped by Europe, only protested.

Tehran Conference: Conference held between Stalin, Roosevelt, and Churchill where they promised an open front in France.

Atomic Bombs: Weapons of war that use the large amounts of energy stored in the bonds of atoms to cause damage to a city.

Japanese Internment: A practice conducted by the United States during World War II as a precautionary measure, and was considered inhumane by many.
