#EQs for Chapter 26

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. The nations of Great Britain, France, and Russia were part of the original set of "great powers" with the nations of Germany, the United States, and Japan being added to the list later due to their eventual progress in industrialization.

2. The second phase of industrialization was being pushed forward by the motives new and emerging businesses, engineering and science desires, and the movement towards advanced and new practices such as physics and chemistry.

3. Railroad allowed for countries to ship supplies all around the globe with very little effort and for an affordable cost. Railroads gave countries and nations even more encouragement to expand their economies because they could now import raw materials from remote locations for less money.

4. It's an example of the power of a capitalist economy because the railroads were being laid and the steamships were being sent, not in the name of new territories to conquer, most of the habitable world had already been discovered, no they were pushed by businesses and companies to search for and establish new economic opportunities.

5. They contributed to the annihilation of time and space by allowing for people to send information over vast distances, instantly. This was impossible in the time period of before, as people had to physically travel the great distances if they wanted to make communication with others.

6. The new innovations in steel making that were discovered by people such as William Kelly and Henry Bessemer allowed for the world to yield huge amounts of steel for use in a variety of things. Their production of steel went from a half million to over twenty-eight million, dropping steel prices significantly.

7. The importance of the invention of a stabilized nitroglycerin was that explosives could now be used for mining operations and could further aid in the construction of economy boosting railroads in otherwise impossible locations.

8. Germany was definitely becoming an intimidating rival of the English because the Germans understood the importance of funding education in the new subjects such as chemistry and science, giving them a head start in many areas of economics such as fertilizer and dye production.

9. Electricity was a much more preferred energy source, and still is, because it was extremely flexible compared to the burning counterparts and could be used in a domestic setting and almost anywhere around their cities.

10. The evidence that exists to support the statement that globalization was occurring includes monitoring the goods being moved around the world at the time. For example, wheat was moved from the United States and found its way to India, on the other side of the world.

11. The business cycle compares to the life of a typical Beckman Highschool student because just as the businesses of the business cycle rose and fell regularly, a student's grades rise and fall as they become over confident and then persistent.

12. The bank collapse that occurred in Austria represents the downsides of the new global economy because it demonstrates just how connected the economy was becoming, since an issue in one part of the world could severely impact those at the other end.

13. It's fair to state that this is true because Britain was responsible for a large portion of the global economy was controlled by Britain, with them holding and directly contributing to over two thirds of the total transmission lines of the times.

14. Just to list of a few of the many reasons that people were moving around the world, they suffered from a lack of food, they were persecuted because of their faith, and the felt the poor effects of overpopulation in their original homes.

15. The dramatic population increase that occurred in Europe was because of the lack of large scale epidemics as people became overall healthier and cleaner. Rapid spread of disease was not as common and the number of successful living births eventually exceeded the death rate.

16. The concept of the separate spheres was an idea that strove to keep woman from interacting within the same "sphere" as their male counterparts, which were thought to live in a different social bubble. And people such as Stanton and Anthony responded and believed that women should be equal with men.

17. Well the book was indeed coauthored by him, but to make things clearer, his beliefs in scientific socialism, which would provide everyone with only what they needed, were definitely expressed in the manifesto that described how the people would rebel and institute the scientific socialism.

18. The attraction of communism for the average man is that it promises to provide for everyone, no matter the hardships that they must face, they get the same treatment as everyone else, respectively. In capitalism though, the person who works the hardest supposedly wins the most, favoring people who exert effort while discourages those who don't contribute, in theory.

19. Middle class women generally were able to hire other servants that could help to manage the workload while working women commonly had to both uphold their own job but additionally monitor their own home as well.

20. They would likely feel that Marx's views are wrong and misguided because they would think that their extra profit is well deserved because they worked to themselves into the position that they currently occupy, giving them the right to succeed further.

21. Engles would likely view the Wealth of Nations as being an evil literary piece that reinforces the poor nature of the businesses and members of society that exceed in benefits due to the extended hardships put upon their people.

22. The industrial revolution and capitalism lead to the development of these new ideas by decreasing the working conditions of the respective people underneath them that had to deal with the new way of labor. Overall it tended to anger and upset some, leading them to thinking of new ways of managing, while the producers enforced ideas such as capitalism.

23. These things benefit the proletariat because they the worker to uptake the same jobs as everyone else, putting them on a similar playing when people try to place the importance of jobs in certain rankings next to one another.

24. A socialist would obviously vote for the Social Democratic Party of Germany because that party was attempting to implement strong socialist reforms, something a socialist would likely support. They wouldn't want to side with an anarchist because the point of socialism is to use the government to equally provide to people, and they wouldn't advocate Marxist ideas because that would include experiencing a period of violence.

25. Language was crucial in developing a sense of nationalism in various countries because it allowed for the people of the country to feel similar to one another on some subject, if not for looking visually similar. The language also allowed people to communicate effectively and express their support of the nation to others.

26. These various movements and events taught the conservative leaders how to take advantage of nationalism and community. New leaders such as Giuseppe Garibaldi and Otto von Bismark effectively used war and nationalism to control their respective countries and to get them focused on decisions that the leaders were making.

27. Their shift caused the change in thought from liberalism becoming conservative with nationalism because they saw the benefits of enforcing nationalist ideas, and how they would gain an upper hand on their opponents when they had unification backing them in morale.

28. He meant that it was in totality unimportant what he said because as long as he kept his side winning the wars, they would accept him as a stronger leader and he would be able to make easier decisions on Germany's behalf.

29. The Franco-Prussian war forever changed Europe because it not only helped to create the Austrian Empire that unified Germany and Austrian states but also changed the views of the French making them ever more liberal than they once were.

30. Public opinion gained greater influence because people were becoming more educated and they were publishing more media that would give the public insight into the politics of their nation, and inspiring them to be more unified. ]

31. It's representative of the minority populations because they were actively discouraged and pushed away as having a uniform society was much easier to build a sense of nationalism for and based around.

32. Both the Germans and the Italians used nationalism as a method to win their battles. When people feel united, they tend to battle more effectively. An important point though is that the minority population described above is part of the reasoning behind nationalism backing tension between states.

33. They enforced the importance of nationalism in their state and with Prussia they went on to form the North German Confederation, which was very influential in the power of Germany as it faced foes such as the French, who they were then able to beat.

34. Their expansive empire brought in huge amounts of resources from around the world and spread their influence to other nations, but the issue that was becoming more and more noticeable was that it was draining their finances as they had to send ships around the globe.

35. Nationalism was extremely divisive in south-central Europe because their existed a variety of languages, all living within close bounds with each, and as we discussed before, language is key for nationalism to succeed.

36. China responded by resisting the European and attempting to close themselves off from the Europeans and maintain their own know ways. The Japanese on the other hand reformed their government and their state as a whole to prepare it for industrial and military power gain.

37. The Meiji Oligarchs made Japan into a great power by reforming the government and the state and instituting new ideas that reflected the industrial happenings in the western world, allowing for Japan to satisfy the Europeans and build up their own powers.

38. Both of the events share a common characteristic, they were attempting to repair weakness, the Boxer Uprising being a failure, while the Meiji Restoration being a critical success.

39. The reasons that he gave for wanting to encourage Japanese Imperialism was that Japan needed to begin occupying territories other than just its own if it wanted to be well protected. If other powers occupied nearby places, they could fairly easily put pressure on Japan's island.

## Vocab

Reichstag: German version of parliament which was important because parties such as the Social Democratic Party began winning seats in.

Nation: A group of people occupying the same region and unified by an aspect of nationalism such as ethnicity, culture, or language. 

Giuseppe Garibaldi: An Italian revolutionary who overthrew the Kingdom of Two Sicilies and attempted to found his new government but was suppressed by the royal Cavour who unified Italy by 1866.

King Wilhelm I: German king best known for his appointment of the chancellor Otto von Bismark who lead Germany to multiple successes and helped in the unification of Germany with Prussia.

Captain Alfred Dreyfus: A French military leader that was tried as a being a German Jewish spy, but was falsely convicted, and the tension on his case represented the split thoughts of the French at the time, choosing between military or national honor.

Splendid Isolation: A policy employed by the British to cut themselves of from European turmoil until they decided to intervene during the Crimean War.

Pogroms: Periodic Russian massacres of Jewish people living within the state.

Russo-Japanese War: A war between Japan and Russia in which Japan demonstrated its surprising strength by beating the Russians.

Revolution of 1905: An uprising caused by Russia's defeat against the Japanese that forced Nicholas II to create a constitution and elect a parliament like committee, which he later retracted.

Charter Oath of 1868: A statement from a member of the Meiji Oligarchs that set the new direction of Japan, encouraging the adoption of Western Ideas for the betterment of Japan.

Zaibatsu: A Japanese version of a joint-stock company in which multiple contribute towards an investment.

Sino-Japanese War: A war between Japan and China in which Japan was able to establish itself in regions surrounding the island by pushing out the Chinese.
