#EQs for Chapter 30

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. The economic relationship that existed between the Europeans and the African regions were greatly representative of Europe's dominance because they forced Africa and their colonies in Africa to export raw materials for their own industrial world, preventing Africa from advancing. 

2. For Sub-Saharan African women the conditions were actually more favorable then they had been previously, this was because women played a large role in the retail end of the market, selling items in shops, making them a more valuable member of society. 

3. He saw that his country and that his people would never be treated in the same way that the French treated their own people, and therefore he saw the lack of nationalism between his own people and their leaders, something that can only lead to disaster. Therefore, he decides to fight for patriotic values by pressuring to get rights for his people. 

4. They would likely claim that the European Colonialism was extremely harmful to Africa because they not only brought new technologies that was able to carry disease as well as common viruses such as Small Pox, the Europeans brought their companies, which put Africans under poor conditions in order to produce the cheapest products. 

5. Nairobi and Ibadan are both considered to be the typical African city because they were heavily urbanized and due to this as well as other factors such as wealth, many Africans moved into them. 

6. Many African people were attracted to the Chirstian and Islamic faith because they not only offered resources such as a good education in Christian schools and Quranic schools, but they also offered better positions than were possible otherwise without their help. 

7. Both Blaise Diagne and the African National Congress were considered to be nationalistic movements because they actively advocated the unification of the African people and the demands for rights that were the same as their European counterparts for their fellow nationals. 

8. It effectively describes India under the British rule because the British ensured that India was met with the industrial developments of Europe, such as rail roads and modern cities, the economy, while they also maintained peace among various religions, morality. 

9. The English played a large hand in colonial India because they acted as the consistent mediator between tensions of the people, such as the Hindus and the Muslims. In addition, the English language helped this mediation by giving a common method of communication to the people, while also angering those who felt descriminated. 

10. These systems all worked to help foster Indian nationalism because it gave the Indian people a higher level of power in their own country but it also gave them a clear image of the enemy that they wanted to separate themselves from. 

11. Britain limited the industrialization of India by controlling its introduction. They wanted to prevent India from industrializing for much of the same reasons that they wished for Africa to not industrialize, a non-industrialized nation is easier to gather and produce cheap resources within. 

12. They were both contributing factors to India's sense of nationalism because the steel mill demonstrated that India could servive on its own, while the war taught them that Britain wasn't all to eager to give them the independence that they desired. 

13. W.E.B. was eager to unify the people of Africa and did it through political negotiation that he had learned from living in America, and Ghandi was similar because he himself had learned Western ideas from living in Europe for a period, and he used these ideas to organize his movement. 

14. He spread the political ideas of nonviolence and the search for truth, and they were considered very unusual because many reformists preferred to take a violent option for quick settlement rather than wait and hope the other side submits. 

15. His declaration of war demonstrated the thin ice that India so catiously walked on, and how when this ice broke due to conflicts such as those in religion, they could effect the country on a national level. 

16. Pakistan exists because the Muslims that lived in India were a large minority that was not being represented in the current government and therefore felt it necessary to build their own laws, and Muhammad Ali was the leader that brought them to that resolution. 

17. The conflict that existed between Kashmir and India is indicative of their other conflicts because it describes the tension that exists between a majority and a heavily motivated and concentrated minority living in the same region. 

18. Latin America was dependent on the much larger and wealthier nations because they had always and continued to export their materials to the larger nations for their manufactured products and resisted undertaking industrialization themselves. \

19. The events after 1821 lead to the wealth gap between the rich and the poor because once again the wealthier nations encouraged the existence of wealthy land owners that could produce the raw resources that people such as the United States often desired. 

20. His motto was misleading as is actually meant that the wealthy should have the freedom to become extremely wealthy and to exert their earned power over the rest of the people, instead of the people getting a say. 

21. They would likely dislike that such as minority of the population is able to make such a majority of the decisions, especially on the behalf of the working people. 

22. They were different in that the Mexican reform movements were heavily focused on providing the people with land and the rights to control their nation through the workers and onwards up the chain, as opposed to India which was concerned with independence and segregation. 

23. The constitutionalists took efforts to propose, you guessed it, a constitution. One that was similar to the modern constitutions of the other countries around the modern world, such as single-term presidencies and voting. 

24. Their artwork reflects the hardships that the poor and the workers had to face when fighting for their rights and their happiness in a country that was populated with individuals who disliked sharing their large amounts of wealth. 

25. Their effectiveness can be witnessed by looking at the reforms that Lacaro Cardenas undertook when he began to perform actions that included removing the vurrent generals from the government and replacing them but also replacing the church schools that existed with government-ran schools. 

26. The Mexican revolution accomplished an assortment of task but the most general and the most impactful of them would have to be the independence that grew between Mexico and the United States, because after Mexico claimed the oil factories and wells within their borders, and the US putting up no recourse, Mexico was finally able to act on its own. 

27. Agriculture was extremely important to the Argentinean and Brazilian economies because it was by their largest money maker in the country, therefore the market relied on its consistent abudance, which the wealthy land owners provided. 

28. They were able to fuel change in their respective nations by being very loud and rose up against the wealthy land owners on more than one occasion. This gave them some amount of power since they hadn't been reduced to the poor yet. 

29. The Depression hit Latin America with a large amount of impact due to the reliance that countries such as Brazil had on not only their manufactured goods that were imported from the rich nations, but also the wealth that was generated by selling resources to said nations. 

30. Favelas are a byproduct of industrialization because industrialization pulls workers away from farmland and into the cities where it becomes more competitive to find good work, and therefore the people who live in the cities are forced to find cheaper solutions, such as slums. 

31. They represented the Latin American efforts to separate from the other countries because they encouraged widespread industrialization and allowed for the reinitialization of Brazilian markets. 

32. He can be considered a successful leader in some sense because he allowed for Brazil to improve its own local economy and he gave some rights to the people. 

33. But as we see with Estado Novio, leaders can sometimes become too power hungary and when people default on their promises the consequences can be severe, as Vargas was quickly overthrown after he tore down the government he made. And Juan established a state that feared his dictatorship, not a good thing. 

34. The Second World War tended to give the peoples of Africa, Mexico, India, Argentina, and Brazil the opportunities for not only complete independence but also the encouragement to take large sums of power, until a few such as Brazil crashed after the Nazis started losing. 

35. In terms of economy: Mexico suffered from a huge gap between the rich and the poor, while Argentina and Brazil suffered the same problem, but expand that to include import and export issues with their recently severed ties to the modern nations of the world. In terms of politics: they were all very similar, with Argentina and Brazil taking a more dictator-ish route that would lead to their downfall. 

36. In both Africa and India the discrimination of the native peoples were the main cause for their independence movements because they wanted to be given the rights that they felt they had either earned from the war or deserved as being a part-ish of their higher nations. In Mexico the independence movements were more encouraged by a want for self sufficiency without the dependence of the other nations. 

37. The enlightenment contributed to all of those countries by giving the resources and thoughts necessary to build political systems that reflected placing power in the hands of the people, rather than of individuals of power. 

38. Getulio Vargas is by far the most like Haile Selassie. Like Selassie, Vargas instituted many reforms to modernize his nation. And like Selassie, he instituted a new government that put him in total control. And like Selassie, he was later disposed due to his radical reforms that some members of the population could not handle. 

## Vocab 

Maharajah: Indian princes who owned and taxed numerous peasants on large amounts of land. 

Indian National Congress: British instituted structure that was meant to help give the Indian people some control of their own government with the British still occupying the region and holding control. 

All-India Muslim League: A group of Muslims that desired to form their own nation and independent state that was going to be strictly Islamic and would separate from their current occupation in India. 

Harijan: The farmers and outcasts that Ghandi supported. Also translates to "children of God."

Jawaharal Nehru: An Indian nationalist that had ideas slightly different to Ghandi in that he was supportive of industrializing India in order to help it grow in power, rather than sit and fall behind. 

Mestizos: An individual of combined race including Spanish and American Indian ethnicity. 

Pampas: Areas of flat land that is not only fertile but easy to farm in Argentina. 

Oligarquia: The wealthy group of land owners that existed in Argentina and was the public enemy of the populace and the political reforms. 

Eva Duarte Peron: The wife of Brazilian dictator Juan Peron and influential political figure of Brazil who acted to improve the lives of women and children in Brazil and helped her husband maintain politcal popularity. 

Descamisados: Translates to, "shirtless ones," a common name of the people that were helped by Eva Peron and that supported her. 
