#EQs for Chapter 14

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. The textbook describes that 9 out of 10 Europeans lived in rural areas due to the poor returns given by manufacturing and growth in both cities and agriculture.

2. It describes that without the equal help of women, Europe was going to continue in its downward movement and his description of women being the end demonstrates his view of what would be to come.

3. There were many different causes but it usually included a combination of high taxes with poor crops, epidemics, and warfare between both local and interregional peoples.

4. The three-field system was an option to try and reduce the effects of the Famine by allowing fields to be harvested more often, therefore bringing in new food. The problem arose when many farmers decided to persist in their past ways and not adopt the three-field system.

5. The Mongols increased western trade with the East by creating roads from one side of the continent to the other. They also put pressure on the Europeans helping to make themselves more apparent in the eyes of Europeans. This was change needed to foster new trade with outside regions.

6. The large change was the emergence of urban areas which gave jobs to specialists and further improved trading. Cities such as Flanders almost relied completely on trade yet they were still able to become wealthy. In the same way, trading cities such as Malacca which opened its ports to all of the world.

7. One of the largest causes of demographic changes in Europe and Asia was the Mongol Empire which put down infrastructure as they expanded throughout Asia up until their decline. In Europe specifically, the decline of the Feudal system opened up the economy to more individuals and was important in starting the European renaissance.

8. The Black Plague spread quickly throughout Europe and the Eastern World. It combined with the widespread famines due to recently cold years, reduced the population of Europe by almost two thirds in some accounts. This reduced population made labor worth more, giving people higher pay. It also gave people a reason to lose faith in their leaders.

9. The Black Death improved the conditions of lower peoples in Europe by increasing their demand. After many of them died, they were no longer plentiful. Great land owners then needed to pay higher prices for their labor. This and the psychological effects of the Black Death gave peasants the courage to revolt against leaders.

10. The mini ice age in Europe along with the Black Death discouraged people's trust in both their gods and their "divinely placed" kings and rulers. This doubt lead to the decline of the Feudal system and Feudal Europe.

11. They allowed for natural mechanical energy to be converted in energy usually expended by human workers. With new forms of automation for simple tasks goods could become cheaper and resources like iron could be produced in greater quantities. This allowed for wealthier people and more advanced armies.

12. Europe's urban expansion caused the landscape of Europe to change by redirecting water and rivers. The biggest impact though was the deforestation caused by an increased consumption of lumber for buildings and for the production of iron.

13. A poem that criticized the owners of mills who were thought to be stealing money from peasants who usually accumulated wealth through agriculture. Instead they were being encouraged to put their labor towards mills and the production of expensive iron.

14. In terms of trade the city state of Venice was more successful. This can be easily observed as Venice dominated the Mediterranean trade routes and accumulated great wealth. They were also home to some of the richest families in the world such as the Medicis. The Champagne fairs did little more than connect exporters and manufacturers.

15. Flanders was multitudes more successful than the League as an individual. Flanders was able to nearly completely support their economy by importing unrefined goods, manufacturing them into important and expensive supplies and then reexporting them for a profit. This demonstrates the solid model that Flanders used and how it connected itself with others.

16. Taxes in these regions increased along with their competition from places such as Flanders and it forced England and Florence to begin building their own manufacturing economy which could provide jobs to large numbers of people and could help to accumulate wealth in general as a state.

17. New urban cities gave the average person greater ability to socialize with others of their class or else. Cities were also the center for increased wealth, and increased came along with an increased standard of living which almost everyone, at least in Europe desired.

18. Guilds were able to protect the interests of people who belonged to a specialization. These new and emerging people controlled their supplies in order to maintain a high enough demand that kept them in a nice range of society while also providing companies the power to continue production of goods. They also trained people into their own specialization further increasing the number of specialists in Europe and surrounding regions.

19. Peter's pence was a way for the bankers of Europe to convince the Church that they should exist. It also helped the banks accumulate wealth in the long run as they made large amounts of money by giving loans to rulers and charging interest on the money.

20. The Medicis were a more influential family as they not only were very wealthy and ran the largest banking system in all of Europe, but also gained political influence by paying governments and just overall controlling their local areas and the governments that governed them.

21. Gothic cathedrals show how involved the people of Europe were in the development and propagation of Christianity. They devoted countless man hours to supplying the work force necessary to build these great buildings. It also showed how money given to the church was being spent in order to further the church's own position.

22. Gothic architecture's most distinguishing characteristic is their pointed arches which were very different from the Greek and Roman rounded arches. They offered a new look but didn't have the same strength as rounded arches. Many Cathedrals fell during construction because of poor planning.

23. Clocks were extremely popular in Europe because they demonstrated Europe's power and they were able to communicate information concerning time. In reality though, they were mostly used as a way for cities and individuals to demonstrate their status.

24. The church believed that charging interest on money was a sin. This put them at odds with the Jews because the Jewish religion didn't have a large problem with bankings charging interest on funds. Jews gained large amounts of money due to their lesser restrictions in banking while Christians grew jealous of Jewish prosperity.

25. It encouraged historians to focus on the great individuals of the day not limiting themselves to political leaders. Instead they record information of individuals in society. The renaissance also just generally improved the Europeans standing when compared to the rest of the world, as new thoughts and arts lead them out of their medieval period.

26. The renaissance was caused by the increasing wealth of large numbers of individuals who then had the funds to support artists, thinkers and institutions with their excess money.

27. Christian faith and the Church was a strong supporter of scholastic-ism, a belief that is contradictory to the ideas of the renaissance. It encourage for people to follow a strict and structured method of education based on predefined ideas. The renaissance on the other hand encouraged people to create new concepts.

28. He tried to connect the Church with the ideas and concepts of Aristotle but this was unable to satisfy traditional thinkers who disapproved of the Church's scholastic stance.

29. Humanism was considered one of the most significant parts of renaissance Europe because it encouraged people to put their focus onto the people of the real world, instead of that of the divine world such as heaven. Chaucer was critical of Europe and its theological centered views and Dante as he focused on the intricacies of language instead of gods.

30. The printing press allowed for the spread of texts concerning new and emerging thoughts to reach even more amounts of people of Europe and gave smaller thinkers a voice in the whole of Europe since spreading their concepts was cheaper.

31. They show up in my history book because they mark the great products of the renaissance.

32. Lorenzo the Medici best represents the renaissance because he is an example of the new wealth that was breathed into Europe. He shows how this wealth allowed for the production of great works, such as those of Leonardo de Vinci.

33. It wouldn't be accurate to call them absolute monarchs because the seemed to always share their control and power with the Church. In addition they developed some cooperation between each other as threats such as the Mongols and the Islamic kingdoms threatened Europe.

34. The biggest innovation was that of gunpowder, which allowed for average people to protect themselves and to contribute to the regional safety, and to that of the power of armies. The crossbow caused a little decrease in knights, but it also increased crossbowmen who became something reminiscent of knights.

35. The Great Western Schism generally removed the Pope out of the English equation for power. It established a new church for England specifically and it made the head of said church the king of England as well. This gave the king control along with parliament.

36. It shows how something such as a marriage conflict will cause these two great power of France and England to clash with their local land owners for powers and rights over the state.

37. It would be accurate to call it a religious crusade because it was a conflict between the Christian kingdoms of Europe and the Islamic kingdoms of southern Spain.

38. The Magna Carta was an agreement between the king of England and his vassals. It shows a step into modern democracy because it holds the king liable to the laws and rules placed upon everyone else who sits within the state of England.

39. Jews suffered greater inequality than the women of Europe because women were able to own land and they could make changes comparative to that of men. The Jews on the other hand were oppressed by Christians.

## Vocab

Venice: A major city of trade that dominated the ports and resources flowing through the Mediterranean. It also fostered some major artists of the European renaissance.

Erasmus: Created new translations of the New Testament in Greek while correcting errors and mistranslations.

Pope Nicholas V: Created the Vatican Library which stored scriptures concerning Greek and Roman works translated into the language of the Church.

perspective: Someone's individual thoughts on a certain subject. It is usually described as one's opinions when concerning a controversial topic. Commonly compared between classes, specializations, and countries.

realism: Connected with humanism as it is the practice of identifying individual things on an Earthly level, not regarding to intangible heavenly or divine concepts.

Papacy: The ruling power of the Popes that controlled the actions and the support of the Catholic church and its positions behind other monarchs such as that of France.

Joan of Arc: A French warrior who was female and acting on the part of God, she gathered the French forces and protected France from England during the Hundred Year's war.

new monarchies: New monarchies shared power with the Church but also shared powers with their land owners, at least until the Hundred Year's war reduced the power of individual land owners.
