#EQs for Chapter 12

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. Europeans and Asians tended to look at the Mongols as a ruthless people who were uncivilized. In reality, the Mongols made a major contribution towards the unification of Europe and Asia, even if it only lasted for a short period. It acted as a demonstration of what could be done and temporarily connected far peoples.

2. A khan's decisions could only be passed off as acceptable if they were upheld by other high level families. This prevented the khan from becoming an absolute ruler, even though members of the strong families tended to be close to the khan anyways.

3. First of all, the Mongols adopted a variety of different cultures of beliefs that they integrated into their own ideas. The second idea comes in the form of the Mongol's dependence on settled peoples. This gave them even more reason to want to conquer new areas, such as developed peoples.

4. The Mongols generally only gathered the labor power of slaves through the conquering of new people during war. Otherwise they would take up voluntary slaves. The Aztec empire did something very similar, also using the method of increasing the slave population through warfare. The Mongols took tribute forcefully from their lower kingdoms while allowing them to also maintain their previous way of life. The Aztecs on the other hand pushed their own ideas onto their lower bodies before accepting tribute.

5. Mongol children can be labeled as pools of diplomacy because they often instituted themselves as leaders of other peoples. In addition to this, if they were a direct descendent of the "khan" then they were eligible for the high ranking position under the same name, which gave the position a large pool to choose from.

6. They had a large amount of political power and generally acted as people who could arrange political meetings with their husbands. They could also wield this power independently, but this brought about the problem of their power being easily challenged and threatened. This showed that Mongol women had slightly more freedoms than that of other societies due to their nomadic ways.

7. The Mongols yearned to establish self sufficiency because they were heavily reliant upon other societies that had settled down and gone down the route of specialization. Iron was important for the Mongols because they could not produce their own refined metals. And, iron was the main ingredient in producing effective military weapons, which the Mongols always needed a supply of.

8. Families were important in Mongol culture because they tended to wield power as a single unit. Prestige was stored within different family lines and the descendants of these lines were used to place the families power and unite it with others in ideal marriages.

9. The Khanate of the Golden Horde controlled Kievan Russia, the Il-khans controlled Iran, the Jagadai controlled central Asia, and the khan under Khubilai controlled Eastern Asia and the Yuan Empire.

10. The Mongols were very successful conquerors for a multitude of reasons. The most important reason was that they let local rulers they conquered remain in power as long as they continued to pay tribute towards their higher Mongol leaders. The second aspect of the Mongols was that starting during the rule of Genghis Khan, military positions were more heavily dependent upon skill rather than family ties.

11. They indirectly contributed to the "Great Pandemic" because of how well they were able to connect the Asian world, with parts of Europe. This new ability for people to cross such vast distances and visit large amount of population centers of foreign people just kindled the effects of a new infectious disease.

12. The main source of conflict between the Islamic peoples and the Mongols was that the Mongols still upheld beliefs in shamanism and earth spirits, while the Islamic people had strict ideas against the belief in any force besides the singular god.

13. The Europeans believed that if they helped the Il-khan against the Golden Horde, that the Il-khan would reduce the pressure of invading Muslims in European lands. This didn't work very well in the long, as the pope continued to excommunicate people who sided with the Muslims residing in Il-khan. To add on to this, the Golden Horde formed more alliances and increased their aggression.

14. The largest problem that made itself apparent in the Il-khanate was the lack of revenues from taxes. Because they tried to adopt Muslim values, they frequently wanted to lower the taxes on the common people. This decreased revenues until the government was barely able to stay alive, and the increased competition for the decreased wealth cause conflict within the ruling powers.

15. He helped to contribute towards scientific and cultural achievement by relocating many scholars, artists, and craftsmen into one area, his capital at Samarkand.

16. They all made attempts to compose writings that described the history of the world. They deserve a place in history textbooks because they were major contributors to the at themselves.

17. The most important scientific achievement that occurred within the Il-khanate was the advancements made in astronomy, specifically having to do with the new idea of how objects orbited one another. This important info was later adopted in Europe by Copernicus.

18. The Inca Empire had their lower kingdoms pay tribute towards them. The Yuan Empire had a similar system and like the Inca, they tended to relocate the rulers and high officials of their lower regions to their capital so as maintain better control.

19. They were treated as people lower than their male counterparts. This was because the Yan Empire adopted many of the Confucian values. This included the strict Confucian hierarchy of individuals. In Confucianism women were often given a lower status than men.

20. The Mongols destabilized the rule of the Russian lands. And, although it is debated, they could have played a heavy hand in the retardation of Russias economy, due to their heavy taxes that were set upon them by the Mongols.

21. This area is labeled as the "Mongol Yoke" because the Mongol decided to isolate their Russian area from the other parts of the world, effectively disconnecting them in terms of trade and cultural diffusion. The counter arguments to this point include the suggestion that the Russians were already experiencing a decline, well before the Mongols established their rule. The second idea is that Russia demonstrated their wealth by paying their tributes in silver.

22. Ivan and Genghis Khan were similar because they both emerged in a point in time in which their regions centralized power was declining and they took up official and specific titles in order to better legitimize their rule.

23. The Cyrillic Alphabet and Orthodox Christianity both emerged in Russia due to Russia's want to form alliances with European powers. Russian leaders adopted these ideals and concepts because it gave them a jumpstart on their Russian society.

24. The Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II was uninterested in participating with the Pope in the crusades, since he was on good terms with the Muslims. The Teutonic Knights had interests similar to the Pope and attempted to create a crusade, but in the north eastern regions of Europe and Russia, in short, they failed to do so. And finally, we have the Lithuanian kingdom which succeeded in maintaining their distance from the Mongols, by just cooperating with them to start with. 

25. Europeans of the thirteenth century would likely view the Mongols with a slightly nicer point of view because the Mongols connected so much of Asia together in tightly woven net. They secured the transportation of goods across their empire and they allowed for the transmission of ideas, resulting in new advances never seen before. 

26. The Mongols forced China into unification by conquering all three of the kingdoms that previously existed. They replaced these old kingdoms with one singular Mongol power of the Ming, who were generally influenced by the Confucian ideas of their predecessors. 

27. Mongol China was definitely more Chinese than Mongol. This is because the Mongol leaders tended to adopt the ideals of their Chinese subjects. Specifically, they uptook many parts of Confucianism. Confucianism was the primary belief system in China for numerous centuries. 

28. Mongol China was for the most part successful during their ruling period, while Mongol Russia was destabilized and consistently losing power. The Il-khans were able to better improve the cosmopolitan nature of the Yuan Empire because they continued to contribute and send their variety of peoples into the Yuan Empire, increasing their diversity. 

29. The negatives of the Mongol rule in China generally include the way how they handled the farmers. It might have been due to the lack of experience of nomadic Mongols that they tended to put farmers in tough situations. They overtaxed farmers and evicted them from lands that belonged to Mongol princes. 

30. After the Ming attempted to cut themselves off from the rest of the world, likely by trying to go against what the Mongols had established previously, they experienced economic decline. They eventually reestablished connections with foreign peoples but their economy felt the pain of this lack of diffusion by preventing further advancements. 

31. The new rulers of China were strictly opposed to their previous Mongol rulers and did everything in their power to contradict the past ideals. They relocated the capital and brought Chinese leaders into a singular area. 

32. Zheng He most closely resembled Christopher Columbus because they were both travelers. Christopher Columbus brought the ideas of Western Europe to farther areas of the world, such as the Americas. Zheng He on the other hand spread the ideas of the Ming Dynasty to other areas of Asia and acted mostly as a demonstration of Ming China's power. 

33. The failure of the Mongol conquest of Japan prevented the Mongols from being able to unify Japan's regional warlords. It also allowed the warlords currently residing there to remain disunified because they were no longer worried about the Mongol invasion. 

34. The Kamakura had a very difficult time organizing the decentralized leaders to use the revenes from taxes in order to better improve Japan as a whole. The Ashikaga Shogunate on the other hand allowed for the mutual improvement of the independent regions but overall did not hold. 

35. It brought a small amount of stability by giving regional warlords the ability to put revenues towards mutual improvements for Japanese towns and markets. 

36. The Mongol invasion of Korea and the new leaders that were put into ruling positions by the Mongols opened Korea up to the rest of the world and removed their isolation. Even though the Yi publicly denounced the ideals of the Mongols they continued to enforce Mongol concepts. 

37. Religion had a very little effect on the Mongol khanates because they continued to adopt the religions and belief systems of any area that they moved into and invaded. This adoption of the religions allowed for better difusion of the Mongols into their lower lands. 

38. They unified both Northern and Southern Vietnam and forced them to be compliant and friendly with one another. This only lasted as long as the Mongols maintained the system. After they lost power in Vietnam, the two opposing forces were once again at odds with each other. 

39. They adopted Chinese politics, social philosophies, religion, and language. They differed from China though in that they continued to provide women with property rights and they upheld their own separate laws that permitted group landowning. 

## Vocab

Nomadism: A lifestyle that doesn't include agriculture, but instead requires its followers to travel across lands in order to continually support themselves off of seasonal resources.

Xanadu: The capital of the Yuan Empire being controlled by the Khubilai dynasty. It was the capital for a short period before the capital was moved closer to the center of China.

Lama: The spiritual leaders and teachers in Tibetan Buddhism who have the most experience.

Beijing: The later capital of the Yuan Empire. The city acted as their final capital and as a great center of education of trade.

Marco Polo: A European traveler that visited a variety of different Asian lands. He supplied critical European views of Asia to the Europeans. He also provided information that allowed for more detailed European maps of the Asian regions.

Kamikaze: In the case of the Mongols, the Kamikaze was the typhoon that prevented the Mongols from being able to easily take Japan. The storms were able to fend off the Mongols and provide protection over Japan. This was important because it prevented Japan from becoming a piece of the Mongol empire.

Ottoman Empire: This empire emerged after people collected together and brought down the Eastern Roman Empire. The empire was primarily Islamic and their courts and laws reflected this information. The Ottoman was a major force in eastern Europe until the first world war.

Slavic Peoples: The Slavic peoples include Russians, Macedonians, and Poles.

Novgorod: Located in Kievan Russia, this city acted as an economic center during the rule of monarchs such as Vladimir the Great. The city acted as a capital for Kievan Russia that was close to other contacts.

Kiev: Acted as a center for the Kievan Rus' until it was sacked by invading Mongols. They lost power but payed tribute towards the Mongols for the lifetime of their empire.
