#EQs for Chapter 15

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. Some benefits of ships include being able to travel great distances quickly while also carrying large numbers of both people and resources due to their size and strength.

2. It was considered even though it was largely independent because it helped for China to reestablish its control and dominance over the surrounding regions after they recovered from Mongol control just previous.

3. The Polynesian people's movement across the Pacific ocean was purposeful because it spread these peoples onto many of the different islands that existed within the Pacific Ocean, created similar languages across the islands, and brought enough people to each island to create colonies. The Hokuleas were canoes that demonstrated ships that were built and could withstand the journeys to the islands.

4. Islam helped found new cities which provided great demand on commodities that were being bought by others who took part within the Indian Ocean trade system. Muslims encouraged merchant networks, especially ones were all of the members could speak a common language.

5. They did it for multiple reasons, this could have included a range of interests such as exploration but more likely, for the commercial benefits that would arise out of Ming China's new social and merchant contacts across the Indian Ocean.

6. They brought treasure ships from China to these outside cities and caused the local populations to become impressed with the power of the Ming. It inspired both Chinese people and the Muslims in places such as India to trade with each other on a grander scale.

7. They opposed contact with non-Chinese contact because the previous rulers of China, the Mongols, expressed a strong attraction towards the idea of being communicative with outside powers, and the new Ming people did not want to express interest in Mongol ideas.

8. The best mariners of the Atlantic ocean included the Vikings. They settled on multiple new regions, traveled oceans quickly, and had a large impact on the thoughts of Europeans towards their own security.

9. In Africa, Mansa Muhammad had sent out expeditions in order to hopefully find new land masses. In the Americas, the Arawak went on trips to travel from southern Americas to more areas farther north such as Cuba and Puerto Rico.

10. The voyages sent by the kingdoms in both Portugal and Spain led to the stopped isolation of the Americas and an increase in global contact and interactions between peoples who are separated by some amount of distance.

11. It allowed for continual growth of urban areas and life, put Iberian kingdoms on a strong stance with Islam, pure interest in the worlds that could be used as new sources  for power and wealth, and semi alliances that might emerge through trade.

12. Their cities of Venice and Genoa were in alliances with Muslims for specific trading deals in the East. Second, the cities in the Mediterranean ships were only suitable for the seas in these calmer waters but would fail on the harsher seas.

13. The Islamic influences were partly responsible for a change in the attitude towards expansion of the Iberian empires. The effect was that the kingdoms were performing expansion for the purpose of military rather than just trade and economy.

14. First of all, he was directly related to the king of Portugal and he explored for the want of exploration and more importantly, for the want to establish new trading contacts that could bring wealth to Portugal.

15. He demonstrated the interest of most explores concerning cultural interaction in which he was most interested in spreading his own culture, like Zheng He, but more interested in profitable ventures.

16. Caravels were a fifth of the size of the Chinese junks. They had lateen sails like those of the Indian ocean dhow. Were shallow enough to move up rivers. But were deep enough to carry an adequate amount of resources.

17. Portugal's expansion can be described as one step at a time because first they had to find the right funds, then they had to convince the crews to go, then they had to go on the expeditions, and finally they had to maintain consistent contact with the new lands that they discovered.

18. They represent Portuguese motives because the Order of Christ was given exclusive rights to impose the Christian religion onto the peoples of new lands while the cruzado demonstrated Portugal's great interest in not only culture but in economic benefits.

19. Famao Gomes demonstrated that expeditions could be funded by more than just the government, if companies and people banded together, they could take larger risks by sharing the rewards. This would change the Atlantic world because it allowed for large shipments of private slaves and resources across the ocean, carried out by groups of people.

20. They represent European intrusions because the ships they were sending to the Indian Ocean carried a similar purpose to China by trying to demonstrate the power and wealth of powers such as Portugal.

21. The largest difference was that the Portuguese voyages were extensively planned and accounted for, while the Spanish discoveries occurred mostly due to luck. Christopher Columbus refused to believe his own luck that he had discovered at least partly, a new continent and insisted that it was part of Asia.

22. It allowed for Christopher Columbus to more easily receive the funding he needed for his expedition since the king and queen of Spain had just succeeded in pushing out most of the Muslim influences that existed within the Iberian peninsula.

23. Spain and Portugal were smart in trying to prevent further controversies over their exploration and discoveries, but their decision on this agreement is a landmark in the thought of Europeans on the size of the Earth, something which they did not have a good idea about.

24. They first of all guaranteed to the Old World that the Earth was continuous, or more importantly, a sphere. It also gave people less of a reason to believe that there was a larger amount of the world to be discovered, as more information became known about the Earth's limits.

25. They were eager to trade with the Portuguese because it one, brought them or the great rulers extreme amounts of wealth and two, gave them an easier method of trade without having to deal with the Mediterranean.

26. Because the city named in his honor was based on Africa's economy to produce and export gold from their various regions in order to support the markets and trade that was being conducted in these areas.

27. The Oba of Benin would be a more passionate supporter of trade with the Portuguese because he wanted to continually establish monopolies of trade with the Portuguese in order to better ensure Benin's position in the global economy that existed between Africa and Portugal.

28. Most leaders were fine with the new traders that were coming to Africa from Portugal but the leaders of Malindi and Ethiopia show how strong acceptance and alliances with the Portuguese could help different peoples in the long run.

29. Portugal's king thought that him and his country of Portugal stood in the center of a political and economic system that they didn't actually control. It shows how people can imagine themselves in greater positions just due to a few successes.

30. These cities and Portugal's trade with them demonstrate Portugal's continual attempts to establish their power within lands that were located some distance away from them and not technically within their grasp.

31. The reactions of other powers varied with most not being concerned with Portugal's interests in new power, while the Ottomans specifically were adamant in their efforts to put up resistance against the invading Christians, intending to defend their lands with the Islamic faith.

32. The Amerindians were experienced with isolation from other peoples so unlike Africa and India, the Amerindian leaders were taken advantage of and usually had their power pillaged and plundered.

33. Its accurate to label the Spanish explorer conquistadors because they came to the Americas with the specific intent to convert the new peoples and bring them into the Christian church and they did this by forceful conquest that assimilated new peoples.

## Vocab

Astrolabe: A mechanical device for simulating and representing the movement of the planets and the Earth in corrolation to each other.

Magnetic Compass: A device initially developed in China that allowed for experienced sailors to navigate shorter paths to their desired locations by not needing to have the coast in consistent sight line.

Gold Coast: The name given to the stretch of African coast that was well known for exporting their gold produce to not only Portugal but many other powers in the world such as Spain and southern Europe.

Entrepot: The name given to an important trading city that was currently being developed and expanded due to its popularity with trade.

King Alfonso of Kongo: A well king of the region of the Kongo in Africa best known for his actions that made the Kongo an officially Christian state.

Widowed Land: A phrase used in the textbook that describes how the extremely decreased population of natives in the Americas due to European settlers left the Americas open to new peoples to inhabit and conquer.
