#EQs for Chapter 12

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. In the Eastern Hemisphere: Africa, Southern Arabia, some of India, and the southeast Asian mainland and islands.

2. Although the sun remained on these regions in mostly the same way throughout the year, winds caused their temperature and weather shifts. In Africa and Asian areas the change in winds throughout the year are difference between heavy rains and dryer times, with non-coastal regions such as Arabia, being complete deserts.

3. It would be inaccurate to say that the Pygmy people best represent the peoples of the tropics because the Pygmy people are from densely forested areas that allow them to survive without the need of complex agriculture.

4. The Aztec and Inca used techniques such as floating gardens and terracing in order to make their terrain more preferable for farming. Similarly the people of Africa and other tropical lands tended to leave lands that were used and committed to slash and burn techniques to fertilize their areas, only producing irrigation systems besides river floods in later eras.

5. Simple irrigation systems emerged in smaller areas and consisted of water storage and release options that could be easily maintained by local people. The irrigation systems allowed for the production of produce all year. Complex irrigation systems of many different structures working together could serve a large population but could also be severely hurt without proper maintenance.

6. Islam was brought to these new lands because it had a firm construction in the more northerly regions and was prepared to spread south. It was a very attractive religion because it governmental benefits and was therefore accepted with generally open arms.

7. Ghana was much smaller than Mali, it didn't control the main trading areas to the north or the waters of the Niger in the south. It also had non-Muslim rulers which prevented it from being able to establish strong contacts with other regions that produced large amounts of wealth.

8. The image supports the evidence of Mansa Musa because on his trips through the cities of trade he would give great gifts of gold and scepters which he had numerous slaves carry while on his pilgrimage to Mecca.

9. He represented the economy of culture of Mali because he showed himself as a devout Muslim, as most of the empire did. In addition, he was very rich; this was connected with his empire who maintained great connections with the production of other valuable materials and was made up of large regions which benefited from the new religion.

10. It was more violent because India was not united and therefore had no way of protecting themselves from a current of Islam influence and invaders that were too much for the local regions to handle on their own, and therefore were forcefully converted.

11. The iron stirrup allowed Muslim invaders to fire high powered crossbows from on the backs of galloping horses. Disunity allowed for these invaders to easily wipe out the people who lived in these areas one by one, instead of having to face a single strong defense.

12. Islam was not as widely embraced in India as it was in Africa because in India it was forcefully pushed upon the people instead of being slowly up-taken through diffusion or yearn for a new religion for their population.

13. I think that Sultan Muhammad was a more effective leader because he spent greater effort and resources in securing and making the people of his own lands feel safe. Mansa on the other hand only ventured for expansion and paid little attention to his home land.

14. People did not feel that women had the right to practice power or rule over any other person. The way how the king who was a female was pushed out of office is a demonstration of this idea from the people of India.

15. The Turkish rule in the Delhi Sultanate relied on the show of power of the rulers and they commonly scared their subjects into behaving as they wanted and respecting the rules that were set upon them by the members of higher orders.

16. They decided to forget about or ignore the customs of their own religion when they had decided it would not fit their own current interests and this angered a large majority of the population, throwing even more people into a tumultuous rebellion.

17. The Delhi Sultanate allowed for India to get a taste of what having a centralized government was like and it set down the foundation of governments that were to rise later in India's history.

18. They increased the trade of resources in the Indian Ocean because they were cheap to build, large carrying capacity, and had rudders built into them for easier control.

19. They were effective because they could carry large amounts of cargo for a generally cheap cost and trade by ocean was quick compared to long movements across land which could be harshly affected by other factors.

20. Indian ocean trade was a decentralized affair because their were multiple groups who benefitted from it.

```Lua
Africa(gold)
China()
Arabia = {
  MiddleEast(),
  Mediterranean(),
  EastEurope(),
}
India("Receiver", "Mover")
```

21. Swahili sat upon the coast of Africa and therefore was forced to interact with and diffuse cultures with the sailors who visited their while transporting and trading resources.

22. Aden acted as the re-packager of resources and products that needed to moved through the Arabian peninsula.

23. Like Aden they imported and exported outside materials for profit. They were considered successful in terms of manufacturing because they often refined the goods that they imported and were able to profit when they exported them once again.

24. Malacca created an alliance with China and eventually became a meeting center for southeast Asian territories and other peoples. It also had officials from a variety of races making it further popular in trade.

25. Christianity inspired churches to be constructed in its honor like in Ethiopia and the same was done for Islam which inspired its people to build large mosques such as in Timbuktu in Africa.

26. Islam encouraged for people to aspire to higher studies and the case was no different in Timbuktu where over 150 Quranic schools were constructed to help with the education of their population.

27. Islam was attractive because it was good for Merchants and it provided a standard law code on how to act and morality. Sufis, merchants, and marriage all helped spread Islam through power, diffusion, and family connections.

28. The new elite of India from the Islamic origins had need for cheap labor and therefore called upon slavery as being the main supplier.

29. The trans-Saharan trading system was able to culturally diffuse Northern Africa with peoples from the Middle East and from Europe. It also helped to move gold out of Africa and make northern areas more wealthy. The East Indian trading systems were able to bring China and the southeast Asian territories into the equation. It bought all of the products that were being produced in India and more westerly areas into Asia.

30. Slaves from Asia and Africa were used for various purposes ranging from only cheap labor to household servant to concubines for wealthy men. They were traded like property and reached nearly every part of the world.

31. Because of the newfound massive popularity in trading women began occupying the jobs for managing trading economies. They still often occupied lower jobs though that kept them limited and placed within their homes, performing tasks such as child rearing and spinning.

32. Overall in India and Africa, the position of women was very relaxed, when compared to the conditions of women in East Asia, where the popularity of Confucianism continued to put women in very low status.

33. He is shocked by how relaxed men allow their female counterparts to be in the household and in the presence of other males. This is a stark difference when compared to the Arab world in which women were expected to be fully covered in public and they weren't allowed to converse with other males besides their husbands.

34. Many changes occurred in Africa and Asia but the largest change was the cooperation of the two areas in trade. They expanded their idea of trade and they started to communicate with other peoples and this brought in a wealth of new ideas and cultures that we see represented even today. The second largest change though, is connected with the first, and is the change in religion; new religions were carried in by the minds of merchants from all over and this affected the new governments and people of each area.

35. Like in many cultures in world history, the treatment of women was usually in lower area of the cultural background. The second continuity was the races that occupied these areas, even though they had new peoples move in from outside areas, a large amount of the populations remained African and Indian.

## Vocab

Monsoons: Large storms that were seasonal and occurred in Africa and India and varried the weather of the tropics.

Manlinke: An ethnic group of people from West Africa.

Himalaya: Large mountains in western India that separate part of the continent.

Ceylon: Now known as sri lanka, city that participated in Indian Ocean trade.

Hausa states: Trading states that are located in west Africa and praticed agriculture.

King Lalibela: The ruler of a popular area of Ethiopia in which famous churches were constructed.

Great Zimbabwe: Living quarters of the rulers of the Great Zimbabwe and was meant in order to impress visitors.

Malacca: A trading city that was located in Southeast Asia that moved goods.

Urdu: A form of writing in Persia that resembles Hindi written in Arabic characters.

Timbuktu: A large city that contained large numbers of Quranic schools that taught its population and helped it have an educated supply of people.
