# Nation Building and Economic Transformation in the Americas, 1800 - 1890

## Independence in Latin America, 1800 - 1830

One of the many reasons that new independent governments began to emerge in the New World was due to Napoleon, and on of the ways that this was accomplished was through the imprisonment of the Spanish King by the French which made remote Spanish lands rebellious. As Spanish Colonies began to distance themselves from their homeland, governments generally emerged that favored strong military focused leaders which delayed the arrival of individual rights. In Mexico, poor crop yields combined with general oppression led the public to outcry against their officials and to demand new leadership. In Brazil, they were led by the Spanish King's son Pedro I, who had a large hand in writing their new constitution, but the issue was that a large amount of the wealth from Brazil was generated by giving little rights to select people.

## The Problem of the Order

Due to the lack of rights given to them by previous leaders many new peoples of the new lands of the Americas experimented with implementing sweeping constitutional ideas in order to try and give locals rights, but it was difficult to remove persistent discrimination. The reason why these new reformist leaders were dangerous was because they were more personalist than they were willing to submit power to a republic, and they generally decided that their own personal decisions were in the interest of the people beneath them. Even though these new groups of people had common interests when it came to independence, they didn't all agree on how independent they should be which lead to many independent states splitting further. Of course the various homelands were not happy with these new semi-independent states and therefore brought conflict into the New World. Finally, after being weakened by previous wars, the new states had difficulties resisting native Amerindians.

## The Challenge of Social and Economic Change

One of the controversial topics concerning these new people was whether or not slavery could be considered ok, and movements towards the abolition of slavery caused the public to take greater thought on the subject. Another piece of constitutional puzzle was immigration laws as states began to worry that massive migration of outside peoples in to their region could diffuse their own values. One of the ways that people in the Americas attempted to protect against cultural diffusion was by trying to teach immigrants specific information about their own cultures and pushing away immigrant cultures. Women's suffrage also found traction during this tumultuous period as reforms were more open to varying ideas. Finally, these new states sought to expand and improve their economies which lead to economic growth, but at the cost of environmental preservation.

## Diversity and Dominance: The Afro-Brazilian Experience, 1828

A large portion of Brazil's wealth was generated as a direct result of taking advantage of the cheap labor that slavery was able to provide. The slaves lived in terrible conditions that would not be considered humane for any citizen. Therefore when leaders and people such as Pedro I began trying to push reforms to lower or even eliminate the use of slavery, wealthy land owners pushed back. This lead to many conflicts between the wealthy and the people of power and abolitionists. The writer of this paper shows us how people began to observe slaves as being just as capable as non slaves which made the efforts to abolish slavery even more present. 

## Environment and Technology: Constructing the Port of Buenos Aires, Argentina

The construction of this port was a big deal because it showed a collaboration between the new states and the old states such as Britain. It also demonstrated the industrialization that was taking place in the new states. They decided to take the more time consumptive and arduous task just so that they would be setting up themselves to be more industrialized in the future.

## Conclusion

The ideas of the enlightenment found fruition around the world and they were heavily responsible for the new states that began to emerge in the New World. One of the reasons why the states found it hard to institute democratic forms of government was that revolutionary leaders tended to keep the power of wielding for themselves. Finally, industrialization of these new states lead to increased economic growth and environmental destruction.

# Reflection

Words {

Government: The biggest part of this chapter was the reforming of local governments in order to better suit the needs of the people instead of the needs of the monarchs. An example of this was British Columbia which split from France and created new politics to run themselves.

Greed: Another part of the puzzle of these new governments concerned the few leaders that lead the rebels to victory when they began to speak out and push back against their monarch leaders of remote lands. The issue was that the new rebel leaders usually acted in their own interests and didn't willingly submit their power to the republic.

Freedom: The general goal of many of these reformists movements was to provide the common people with equal liberties and rights. This was a view that many commoners wanted to see become a reality and for many different states indeed it did.

}
