#EQs for Chapter 23

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. His attempts at conquest in Spain pushed the Spanish monarchs into Brazil and this reminded the people of Brazil of their hatred for a monarchy. In addition to this, the Spanish king was captured and held prisoner, and Spanish colonies began disobeying their lower instated local rulers.

2. The conditions that lead to revolutions were a combination of poor treatment plus overall anger. The poor treatment was most important in places where slavery was common while the anger was a common factor found throughout the Spanish colonies as they disliked their colonial position.

3. They evoked crisis because they expected that people who were in a state of crisis were more likely to be unable to rebel against their leader. Sadly they were gravely mistaken as people began to form new leaders that didn't have the crown in their mind.

4. The goal of the creoles was to gain rights that were equal to those of the native born Spaniards who came from Spain and tried to lay down their superiority.

5. Simon Bolivar acted as a revolutionist leader in Mexico whose goal was to become a large leader and to separate Mexico from Spain's controlling hand. He was a popular leader of the people and by controlling the military he maintained his high position.

6. It shows the character of Simon Bolivar because it gives us an in depth look into how Bolivar was like a dictator in that he used fear to control his people. In addition, he suppressed any ideas that were contrary to his own opinions.

7. The military revolt in Spain helped Bolivar's independence efforts in the Americas because it prevented Spain from being able to focus any significant amount of resources on maintaining their control over their various colonies, one of which Bolivar used to his advantage and took control as a new leader.

8. They are similar to the condition of King John because they both had limited power. The king of Spain was imprisoned in his own country by the forces of Napoleon and he was unable to extend his powers onto any parts of his states. Instead his states had to make actions for themselves, and sadly for him, they usually chose independence.

9. The Catholic church played a large role in Latin American independence movements because the church held great influence in politics of the colonies. In addition to this the church was usually loyal to the Spanish monarch and not to the local poeple who lived in its presence.

10. Both of these leaders are connected to each other because they both sought to accomplish the same goal, to separate their individual states from the power of the monarchy that ruled Spain. Jose was an Argentinian leader while Tupac was an Peruvian leader.

11. Miguel Hidalgo was a more successful revolutionary because the other dude was defeated while Miguel was able to make his statement live on. In addition to this, Miguel was a strong speaker and he convinced thousands to join him in his opinions about how the world should be governed, and how they should be governed.

12. The Brazilian's resentment for Portugal grew because they enforced strong monopolies as well as other economic policies on Brazil that only benefited Portugal. After this, the monarchs of Portugal moved to Brazil and the king's son eventually became a large part of society as he encouraged reforms to human rights of slaves, which was difficult due to the nature of Brazilian products.

13. The movements in the various parts of South America differed from those of the Americans because they continually had to rebel against leaders that were ignoring them or occupying their lands while the Americans had to deal with an active opposition.

14. The Revolutions that occurred in Latin and South America were definitely successful. They separated the states from their homelands and gave them individual rights. Even though the leaders of these new states tended to be strong and personalist, the constitutions that were passed modeled the rights of the Americans and other European constitutions.

15. The independence that the Confederation created was done through a negotiation rather than through violent measures of force.

16. Robert Walsh first believed that the slavery he saw was alright and justified because of the poor look the slaves had but as he inspected them further he realized that the slaves actually were just as civilized as the non slaves and that they had no reason to not be able to make political logical decision like anyone else.

17. The abolition of slavery in Brazil was heavily opposed since a large amount of Brazil's products were produced through the use of the forced labor that slaves provided. In the Americas, slavery was only really used to the advantage of one section of the states while the other side of the states was an active encourager of its abolition.

18. Slavery played a large role in the revolution of the South Americas because they generally decided to fight for their respective state even though they were being given very little rights of their own. This turned out to be good as their efforts made people concern themselves more with the abolition of slavery.

19. The Mexican and French Revolutions shared similarities because they both rose out of social class issues. In Mexico the creoles as well as other peoples were annoyed with their poor treatment and unequal rights. In France the lower classes were extremely angry with their poor treatment from the various aristocracy.

20. Constitutionalism was more successful in the Americas because the homeland countries that the American colonies came from were instituting their constitutions as well. As opposed to the Spanish colonies which had a far away monarch who had no plan in giving up power.

21. Military leaders gained the support of their citizens by becoming extremely personalist. They became charismatic and they encouraged good feelings of reform while also suppressing anything that was contradictory to their very own methods for implementing what they saw as correct reform.

22. Paez was an example of a personalist leader because he ruled and was able to control people through his strength and charisma instead of through his political expertise. Instead he pushed the limits of his power.

23. Andrew Jackson changed the American Presidency because he pushed the limits of the constitution, and he acted as a model of an individual who can rise from very humble beginnings but still accomplish great things in his country.

24. Regionalism can cause division within a certain state because it can separate the people living in that from one another.

25. Regionalism in the United States lead to the creation of the Senate to give individual state representation, but one of the issues was that they also gave individual states, such as the southern states, the ability to have laws separate from the entire country.

26. The Mexican-American war prevented Mexico from reaping the insane benefits of the unknown gold that existed in California. It also acted as a demonstration of America's power in terms of their foreign affairs.

27. These two large events are clear representations of the treatment of natives by the American people. Americans grew into heavy conflict with their natives that lived among them as they felt entitled to what they believed was their land that they had purchased from other sources.

28. Even in places such as Mexico, Amerindians were used a labor source where cheap labor could be extracted. In addition, the Amerindians had very little resistance to the new epidemics that Europeans were bringing over to the Americas. Just to top it all off, Amerindians were almost universally give poorer rights than Europeans.

29. They were more successful because they had governments in Europe that had undergone their own reforms of leadership. For example, England went through multiple reforms and this lead o increased power of parliament and decreased power of the monarch. In France, we see a similar outcome and these events acted as models and inspiration for Americans.

30. Britain played a very large role in the abolition of slavery as they banned their slave trade with Brazil. This put the Brazillian slave owners in a tight situation as they depended on slaves for their labor. As slave trade decreased the use of slaves did as well, and this made abolition even more necessary.

31. The eighteen-hundreds could be known as the century of immigration because it is marked as one of the first periods in which members of the European and Asian states began flooding into places such as Canada, the United States, and South America.

32. The prejudice they faced included racism in the form of riots, and the development of harsh stereotypes about their races. They also faced the education system which was and still is used in order to push American culture onto the children of immigrants.

33. Acculturation is related to the immigration movements of the eighteen-hundreds because the respective states were concerned that the new cultures of the immigrants would push away and dilute their own cultures, so they decided that they needed a method for converting immigrants into the ideal citizen.

34. The European Immigrants inspired for the use of teaching all immigrants a single language so that they could acculturate to the new environment and to their new country. In addition, the European Immigrants lowered wage prices as they accepted lower paying jobs.

35. The abolition movements improved the conditions for women as it provided yet another reform to encourage the movements of reforms in general for people's rights no matter what their specific condition or attribute.

36. The treatment of women was similar to the treatment of freed blacks because women still could not vote in most places and they were given a different style of life. This included not being able to receive the same education as white males. In the same way, blacs had to deal with unequal segregation.

37. The terms development and underdevelopment apply to the western hemisphere because countries such as the United States tended to center their economies in development in which they manufactured goods and generated high-paying jobs, while in Latin American countries the economies were usually underdeveloped and many people had very low-paying jobs.

38. The consequences that Latin America had to come to terms with when they used a specialized economy was the sharp decrease in supply prices as large parts of their economy dedicated themselves to a certain resource, and that resource became over supplied, hurting the economy.

39. The efforts that were made in order to try and protect the environment of the hemisphere was to declare several National Parks and another several nature preserves that were meant to stop economic growth and its destructive properties in those areas.

## Vocab

Caudillo: A Spanish military leader, such as Bolivar or Paez.

Benito Juarez: A Mexican president who was responsible for pushing out the French armies that attempted to invade and hold Mexico due to unpaid debts.

Women's Rights Convention at Seneca Falls: A meeting of women who were not permitted at an antislavery meeting. They declared that, "We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men and women are equal," a key part of the women's rights movements.
