#EQs for Chapter 24

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. The Zulu's had military advantages because they made use of technologies such as strict military training that they gave to their soldiers. In addition they took advantage of new shields and spears that helped them dominate southern Africa.

2. They began to dominate and terrorize their neighboring states and this created countless refugees in their area. But you have to note a benefit that also was a consequence of the Zulu, they convinced the surrounding states to band together for protection.

3. He created a national unity by setting up specific groupings of his peoples in his regions. These groups would separate out people by gender and age in order to better collect and connect them. They spent time learning together and bonding together which improved their unity by great lengths.

4. The word jihad applies to those movements because the Muslims believed that the way of God was to enlighten others with the knowledge of Islam, and their way of striving towards this belief was to push their Islamic religion harshly unto conquered peoples. One of these harsh methods was taking up arms in the defense of their religion against non believers.

5. The Sokoto Caliphate served as a center for Islam by first, being massive, but second becoming the home of and supporter of Quranic schools which taught scholars and were the holders of large libraries that attracted people far and wide.

6. The reform movements expanded upon the cultures of slavery in their region because many victims of the reforms were put into slavery by Muslim leaders and therefore were contributing to the slave trade. In addition, slaves were being used as a way to keep women inside the household home in accordance with traditions.

7. Slaves were being used as a way to subsidize the labor required in order to produce large amounts of food and resources necessary to provide for a large population. This took work away from Muslim women who then commonly became confined to the home because of traditions.

8. His invasion helped to begin these big changes in Egypt because it demonstrated to the Egyptian peoples the powers that they had to prepare against. After France left Egypt, the president began to institute new reforms in fear that another European power might try to invade.

9. His words show that Egypt was understanding that if it wanted to stay competitive and wanted to be able to stand with the new and emerging powers, it had to institute its own reforms. Ismail references Europe because that was where the industrial power was originally sourced from, and they were the people who took Egypt.

10. Cotton played a huge interest in British and English interest in Egypt because Egypt could produce cotton cheaply and in large amounts. Therefore when Egypt began restricting cotton exports, European manufacturers became antsy. This eventually lead to Egypt becoming partially occupied and largely influenced by European interests.

11. Ethiopia made a fairly decent attempt to modernize when it had a series of rulers who pressed the advancement of technology in Ethiopia, but sadly their plans fell down and broke apart after the emperor committed suicide when the British began an invasion of Ethiopia.

12. Nationalism was the reason that France chose to attack the smaller state, their was an unpopular government that existed within France and they needed a way to collect the people and rally support. They saw Algeria as an easy target to beat.

13. They were motivated to explore inner Africa for the common reasons, monetary gain through mineral deposits, and to hopefully convert large numbers of people to Christianity. Both of these explores represented these motives because they were commonly being financed by the governments of Europe.

14. They were motivated to end the slave trade because slaves created large uprisings in their regions and humanitarians were gaining popularity as these revolts and revolutions began to gain more popularity. In addition, it made trades and movements of goods besides slaves more successful and fruitful such as other African products.

15. England took multiple steps to prevent the slave trade and this included employing large sums of money to allow naval vessels to enforce slave bans in foreign regions. They also forged agreements with the foreign nations so that they could search their boats in order to liberate illegal slaves.

16. The end of slave trade allowed for legitimate trade to expand and grow outwards as it cleared up the markets and gave room for those other trades to fill in the gaps and generate further amounts of wealth.

17. Palm oil could indeed be considered the new version of cotton because like cotton it was cheap, but the reason why it made so much money was because it could be exported in large amounts. In addition to this, palm oil had a variety of uses in Britain which made it even more desirable than an exclusive material.

18. It helped to spread Western Culture to Africa because the British would bring these liberated slaves into their towns and they would usually willingly convert to Christianity before they began to move back into Africa.

19. They differed from the Zulu because they were only secondary empires, and that is just a way of saying that they didn't do a lot of direct influence in their respective regions but instead generally responded to Europeans and their interests, which included materials that made large use of slaves and brought weaponry to Africa.

20. The company men and sepoys helped to establish European influences and control in India as the men brought British Industry to India and with this industry they hired Indians known as sepoys who helped to keep the Europeans power intact by providing private armies for protection.

21. It is an important date because it clearly shows how not only was Britain becoming powerful in India but so was their companies. A company had made a political deal that had put them in the position of something that likened itself to a full government.

22. It lead to an increased amount of control by The East India Company of Britain because it allowed for the company to use its hidden power to push down the local governments that existed and replace them with governments that better aligned with their own interests.

23. The policies that Britain expanded upon and instated in India included enforcing a new government that was a large and could efficiently organize tasks, removing power away from military personnel and making them more docile, and giving Christian missionaries the ability to push their religion unto the local populations.

24. They balanced traditions with their other aspects by creating elaborate displays that had little to do with their actual culture but instead had more to do with opposing the resistance from their nawabs who stayed at ends.

25. British raj had an extremely negative effect on the people of lower classes and women included because it stressed the superiors of the culture and even provided tax benefits to the higher status and less to the poor, further pushing them down.

26. The economic benefits of the raj included the creation of large numbers of jobs for the common people. In addition, it expanded the exports of India and created wealth for both Indian traders and for the traders that existed in Europe.

27. It represented British rule in India because it clearly demonstrated that the British were not completely firm in their standing in India, and that a rebellion of greater size could eventually drive them out of power and out of luck. Historians claim this was a mark because it gave Indians the idea that Britain was not all powerful.

28. The Indian Civil Service made Indians feel better because it supposedly treated them equally under the law, but it also oppressed them because India's were restricted from the ICS positions due to British racism that existed among the ICS ranks.

29. New technologies and public works worked to benefit Britain in India because they used these advances to further align Indian peoples, manufacturers, and farmer with British interests, this included the raw export of resources such as cotton.

30. Those two things were considered to fall under Pan-Indian nationalism because they attempted to remove the discrimination between different classes of Indians and instead tried to unify the people of India under a common race.

31. Both of those regions were very important British claims because they helped to support British traders. The colony of the Cape helped to support traders that were trying to make the long voyage around Africa and to India, while the Singapore facilitated British trade in the Indian ocean.

32. The primary purpose of Britain's colonial efforts were to generate new sources of wealth for Britain. The colonies usually had to be easily independent and had to provide Britain with large economic benefits. They had very little interest in expanding their land territories but instead in expanding their economic territories.

33. Britain's industrialization influenced its colonial efforts by giving Britain the necessary power to impose its new peoples over the old peoples. In addition, British colonies could offer the natives of the regions goods that no one else could supply, further supporting British economy.

34. Britain's technological revolution influenced its commercial expansion because it allowed for British colonials to set up factories in these new lands and these factories were able to produce cheap manufactured goods and sell them for the benefit of the British economy.

35. Britain's effort in Australia and New Zealand were different because they had to deal with general colonization that was similar to their colonization of the Americas, they faced little resistance from the indigenous populations who couldn't fight back.

36. The abolition of slavery all over the world created massive migrations due to the vacuum of labor that needed peoples to run the farms in these new colonies. Laborers from places such as China migrated to these new colonies in order to find work, and this supported the new colonies.

37. The colonials were exploiting the large populations by writing contracts that created a system likening itself to slavery that existed before. People received poor treatment once they arrived in the lands, but they got a free trip over. In addition, many peoples were coerced into leaving their previous homes that they would have otherwise remained in. This reflects the commercial and industrial power that European countries such as the British extended onto others.

## Vocab

Robert Clive: A young member of the East India Company of the British who gathered together British peoples and pushed out one of the problematic nawabs that existed around the British city of Calcutta. 

Durbars: "Traditions" that were put on by the British as a way to demonstrate British control and dominance in India, and to oppose the tradition arguments from nawabs.

Cholera: A disease that is generally carried in water that has human feces in it. The disease was known in India as black death and eventually found its way back to Europe, killing many.

Sati: A cultural tradition in India in which a wife performs self-burning as a way of demonstrating her loyalty to her husband.

Indian National Congress: A meeting of Indians organized by the Brahmo Samaj that worked towards making Indians more important and influential in the Indian Civil Service.

Afrikaners: Dutch and French settlers of the Cape colony who were so integrated in Africa, they referred to themselves under this title.

Captain James Cook: A English explorer who made trips to New Zealand and Australia, setting up crucial shipping networks and bringing many settlers to the remote lands.

Hausa: Central trading cities that occupied central Sudan and exported slaves as well as unique kola nut. They were eventually conquered by the Sokoto Caliphate.
