#EQs for Chapter 22

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. It can indeed be argued that the modern industry that emerged was a direct event of the scientific discoveries and movements of the sixteen-hundreds because scientific invention and reform lead to a greater variety of thought. These new thoughts allowed for new innovations to come from different sets of people all over Europe. The new reforms also lead to new governments which were fairly hospitable to new industry.

2. The potato that arrived in Europe by being transported through the Columbian Exchange increased the overall demands for goods in Europe because they no longer needed to rely on their previous agricultural staples and could instead decrease time spent growing food since potatoes were so easy to produce. This left more money for buying products.

3. Eli Whitney and Claude Chappe contributed to the industrialization of areas in Europe by inventing machine tools that aided in new machine construction and manufacturing and one of the first ever telegraphs that revolutionized long distance communication. Both Samuel Crompton and Richard Arkwright made significant contributions to European industry by inventing two new spinning wheels, the water frame and the spinning mule, which reduced the price of textiles and increased their usability.

4. He would strongly support the idea of division of labor because it increased the productivity of a nation, and as he described in his excerpt, he believed that a nation's productivity power was in direct correspondence with the nation's success and power.

5. The cost differential helped Britain because Britain was surrounded by water on most sides. Long distance trade over an even terrain such as water allowed for goods to be moved cheaply. These cheap goods could then be sold in far-away lands and could dominate those markets, generating great amounts of wealth for Britain.

6. The Industrial Revolution began in Britain because Britain was small. They had very little area to expand and therefore had to create new methods in order to remain competitive with the rest of the world. Along with that, their new government that emerged, closely related to democracy, allowed for members of society to change their class status, giving people greater reason to succeed.

7. The political revolutions that occurred in the nineteenth century allowed for British ideas to travel to other states because the new governments that began to emerge started to implement similar rules like those in Britain. In addition to this, trade with Britain which increased after political reforms, allowed for cheap British products to flow to these new areas. The new regions had to borrow technology to stay competitive.

8. They began to put lift taxes on imports and exports to try and encourage greater trade and they actively encouraged their own companies to take part in idea such as joint-stock companies. In addition, they began to start educating their citizens by creating technical schools.

9. The five things that started to push the Industrial Revolution to its heights included cheap pottery which gave even common people manufactured products and demonstrated the power of division of labor. New cotton spinning machines decreased textile costs while increasing production. The creation of coke iron allowed for abundant use of strong iron in a variety of projects such as boats, buildings, and bridges. The steam engine created a new source of labor that worked tirelessly and could subsidize the efforts of humans. Finally, railroads took advantage of the new iron in combination with steam engines to speed up land transport while decreasing cost.

10. The Song Dynasty did not reach that close to pure industrialization. In reality, it seems that the Russians under Peter the Great were well on their way to beginning an industrial revolution as they began to adopt European ideas. But the Song Dynasty did allow for new inventions to emerge while it stayed weighed down by a government that enforced heavy government influences on private industry.

11. Mass production, division of labor, and mechanization was able to increase the overall demand for goods by decreasing the cost of goods while in turn also employing more people. These new and employed people no longer had the time to implement their life on their own, they began to rely more heavily and second-party sources to provide for their needs.

12. The Industrial Revolution began in the textile industry because the Chinese as well as other states were the primary exporters of fine textiles such as silk. This caused Europeans to pay high prices for imports of these expensive products. This expensive cost made the sale of textiles even more profitable in Europe.

13. The Industrial Revolution in England impacted the United States heavily because not only did it allow for cheap manufactured goods from England to travel over the seas and into United States' markets, it also contributed the new innovations such as that of the steam engine and the telegraph for United States' use.

14. The development of coke iron was extremely significant because it made iron metal readily available for nearly any use. No longer was iron only reserved for the creation of militant weaponry. Instead it could be used for structures and machines that could then be used to decrease production costs further.

15. His steam engine allowed for the use of fossil fuels in nearly any situation. Steam engines could no be located in places besides right outside of the mines that supplied them. Instead they could be put in factories and used to replace the prices of human labor. Most important of all, they never tired.

16. The industrial revolution made the world smaller by accomplishing a couple of feats. The first of which was speeding up people's geographical movement by building boats and trains that used steam engines instead of human or natural labor. Second, they increased global communication by developing instantaneous communication methods such as the telegraph.

17. For cities the industrial revolution caused major heart ache as the standard of living went up (sometimes) but the working conditions grew gravely worse. Workers had to expend large amounts of labor for very little profits and they had to employ themselves in some private industry or they risked facing poverty. In addition, cities grew more populated and natural diseases grew like wild fire.

18. Steamships cause epidemics in England because it allowed for the quick transportation of huge numbers of foreigners into the cities where they could transmit diseases that they might have carried with them from their previous location.

19. The environmental impact of the industrial revolution was disastrous as deforestation and pollution was rampant throughout Britain. Factories began dumping all of their wastes into public rivers, and they began releasing huge amounts of smoke into the air. The British quickly realized that they were running out of their forrest supply.

20. The industrial revolution had two types of impacts on women. In some cases it decreased their social standing as they began to work at home and males began to occupy the manual labor jobs, which were considered more significant. But, later women began to occupy their own jobs in places such as cotton mills, and they began making their own money which further decreased the average marriage age.

21. Women in Industrial America felt decreases in their social status because men thought that housework was worth less than their manual employment work which brought home usable currency while in Industrial England, women gained some significance because of their role as a part of the workforce.

22. Child labor grew during the Industrial Revolution due to certain benefits. The most important was that children could be paid very little since they usually lived with relatives. In addition to this, children were smaller and they could be used more effectively to deal with machinery.

23. It's accurate to describe the women of the Industrial Revolution as the cult of domesticity because women were encouraged to stay restricted to their homes and to act "woman-like" in order to conform to the common thoughts on their behavior.

24. The Industrial Revolution strengthened the usage of slavery in the Americas because it made it an almost necessity in order to stay competitive with the new manufactured products that were arriving from Europe. In addition, the new products required greater exports of raw materials which slaves could harvest.

25. His concepts of the faire are contradictory to mercantilism because it explains a method to increase the general welfare, while mercantilism is more concerned with the state's welfare rather than that of the general public.

26. Freidich List made the argument that governments were responsible for helping to encourage their local economies by implementing the necessary legislature to do so.

27. Jeremy Bentham believed that the government should solve societies problems by studying their own economies and making decisions as a correct parliament to make their state more conforming to the needs of their economy shown from their studies.

28. The Industrial Revolution spurred the creation of labor unions by giving the common person low wages, in order to combat this labor unions banded together in order to demand fair payment for their individual amounts of work, ensuring some sort of fair treatment.

29. Early labor unions were unable to make large strides as parliament tended to favor their industrial interests and unions generally fell apart and accomplished very little in comparison with other forms of reform.

30. Positivism and Utopian socialism were both responses to the industrial revolution due to the poor working and living conditions that became prevalent due to the new business leaders and the yearn for continually cheaper prices and higher efficiency.

31. England was able to defeat China because they began using their massive sums of iron and fuel in order to build warships that the world had never seen before. These ships used metal to protect themselves.

32. The result of the intervention was their ability to influence the new government of Egypt and force them to establish their state as one of the world's raw exporters to keep them out of competition with the English and their rise to economic power.

33. English imports were overall extremely detrimental to the Indian economy as the English actively encourage pushing the Indian economy down in order to keep their own businesses happy and on top.

## Vocab

Agricultural Revolution: New agricultural system allowed for surplusses in food that enable many people to move into cities instead of acting as farmers.

Enclosure Movement: Farmers began to stop working in communities and it forced only but the large land-owners to have to move into cities in order to find work that supported them.

Electric Telegraph: An electronic form of communication that allowed for near instant communication across large distances.

Business Cycles: The cycles that economy experienced as prices rose and fell on a regular basis, hurting standards of living for sporadic lengths of time.

Thomas Malthus and David Ricardo: Malthus was a researcher that predicted that war and disease will always keep a population checked. Ricardo believed that individual states should put all of their focus into specific industries.

Dependency Theory: The theory that the wealth of a state starts at the poor and eventually moves into the hands of the wealthy.

Sybil or the Two Nations: A novel that is an in depth description of the conditions of the working class in Industrialized Europe. 
