#EQs for Chapter 21

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. The four forms of government include Dictatorship, where a single person has absolute power, Oligarchy, where a small group of people have absolute power, Direct Democracy, where every member of society takes part in every decision, and Representative Democracy, where members of society vote on people to make decisions for them.

2. These wars all acted as examples of success, success in the publics favor. These successes brought newfound encouragement to other peoples who were being oppressed and didn't understand that they had the ability to band together and fight back. The wars helped people realize commoner's true potential.

3. The major powers of Europe were in conflict with each other especially during the eighteenth century due to the fact that there was very little space in Europe. Another factor that contributed to conflict European powers was conflict of faith, this included the war between Catholicism and Protestantism. Finally, European powers had to compete for the limited trade that passed through Europe from it's various entrances and exits.

4. Benjamin Franklin would better serve to represent the ideal figure of the Enlightenment because he was a supporter of new ideas. One of these ideas was slavery, which Franklin continually spoke out against. In addition to be interested in politics, he also put efforts into achievements in science and the natural world in order to better help educate others.

5. The Renaissance changed the world by bringing new ideas to greater amounts of people through inventions such as the printing press, and the ideas of the Enlightenment met new ears as well especially when the popularity of the telegraph took off. While the Renaissance was more focused on providing ideas about the art world the Enlightenment was more centered on communicating information about politics and individuals rights.

6. It can be argued that France was weakened by its part in the Seven Years' War because it put a strain on the French government and it was in sync with the Indian War in the America's which also gave the Americans more insight into the vulnerable position of the French.

7. The American Revolution was extremely unlawful, since it broke the laws that had been set by England during times prior. No matter the poor conditions that the Americans were subject to, there was no exception in the law for annoyed.

8. The US constitution might be considered the most significant political document ever written because it was one of the first documents to provide the most linear form of power to the people who had to abide by it. Unlike many other parts of the world, who switched to constitutional monarchies but were stilled ruled by monarchs.

9. Both documents had great effects on the general moral of the citizens of their respective countries. In the Americas the Declaration of Independence gave Americans a sense a unity and accomplishment over oppression, further providing them with the will to go farther. In France, the Declaration of the Rights of Man accomplished a similar feat by giving the common person rights that allowed people to be more interested in participating in politics.

10. Jean would probably agree with the proponents of the American Revolution since we can see in his book, The Social Contract, he describes the importance of individual rights. With Russia on the other hand, he would likely be disgusted with the absolute power that Peter granted himself.

11. The Reformation definitely had a larger impact on the world because it was the catalyst that drove even people who weren't with religious faith to stand up for their rights to freedom. When people spoke out against the Church and were able to get away with it, others followed quickly after.

12. He acted as a lawyer and encouraged the use of violence in order for the revolution to achieve its goals. In total, he acted as the head of the new movement until he was eventually executed by the very same movement.

13. Both of these monarchs can be described as tyrants because they ruled with absolute power. In addition to the power they they held, they also tended to use their power quickly and harshly in order to maintain their own positions.

14. In Europe the Enlightenment influenced documents such as the Declaration of the Rights of Man which has significant similarities to American documents. In Latin America, it showed people that race and origin was becoming less important as the local populations took over for their own rights since they were being misrepresented. Finally, in North America it lead to the destruction of slavery in various areas, as men gained more rights.

15. The Haitian people rebelled because they were considered slaves, and as they were treated extremely poorly as such by their white and wealthy counterparts. Compared to the French and the Americans, these were great reasons. Every body of people was combating the feeling of being oppressed in their lands.

16. What made the Haitian rebellion unique was that it was headed by a combination of both blacks and whites instead of just being exclusive. Mr. Oveture played an important role as he organized the people of the revolution and spoke with leaders of the opposing forces in order to find resolutions to the problems that his people were facing.

17. These approaches differ because they're basically opposites in deciding how to handle the war. The Jacobins are willing to give up the liberties they fought so hard to acquire in order to better protect themselves from intruders, while the Girondins are unable to submit their achievements as barter for protection. The Girondins would have been the better party to use as the Jacobins could leave the government open to monarchy take over, and France already had enough power just as a community to resist the English.

18. The statistics support the Jacobin because they began to disregard the rights of individuals and instead focus only on the movement of the revolution, of France, and of the war with England instead of putting their interest in more interesting matters.

19. Both Napolean and George Washington can be considered effective leaders because of their ability to rally together support for there ideas and ideals. For example, Napolean almost got the entirety of the public behind him while Washington convinced farmers that they could make the difference.

20. The purpose of the Congress of Vienna was to establish peace between the various European nations and to discuss the protection of themselves from Napolean's thinking which might pose a threat to Europe as a whole and not just the small region.

21. The Revolutions of 1848 acted as a way of instituting more ideas associated with the Enlightenment. These included but were not limited to providing the right to vote to all adult men, discontinuing the use of death penalties, and removing slavery from Paris as a whole.

22. Joseph Brant worked towards strengthening the military of the lands that he influenced and he sacrificed his values in order to accomplish this. Similarly, the Jacobins sacrificed crucial rights and liberties that they had previously gained in order to fulfill their new military desires.

23. He probably believed that the new and emerging revolutions were terrible since he himself decided to flee his country when he was worried that he would be dethroned as an absolutist ruler. He was not a monarch to simply give up his power.

## Vocab

Estates General: A group of representatives for the state that tended to live in Versailles in order to help keep them happy. They were responsible with consulting the king before he made big decisions.

First Estate: The first estate consisted of clergy to represent the Church.

Second Estate: The second estate consisted of the nobility to represent the needs of the wealthy.

Third Estate: A representation of the common people who occupied the majority yet still were able to make very little impact on and in the decisions of the state when it came to consulting the king. 

National Assembly: The National Assembly was a large collection of French citizens that met in order to discuss new laws and documents to be passed in the new French government. They generally spent time reforming old rules in the government systems.

Reign of Terror: A period of time during the French Revolution in which absolutely no one was safe from the violence of the common people. It was characterized by commoners sentencing other people and numerous other commoners to the guillotine for nearly any reason they might be able to come up with.

Oath of the Tennis Court: A document that completely cut off the French King's power and made him subject to the will of the people. It was one of the final nails in the coffin when it came to French Monarchy.
