#EQs for Chapter 25

##Questions for this document can not be provided. Please use the information described.

Includes opinions not directly taken from factual documents.

1. The multiple pieces of evidence that exist and are in support of Muhammad Ali's views to integrate western technology and ideas include his efforts to create new local factories in Egypt, his attempts to restrict imports from European regions in order to better promote his own manufacturers, and Ali started using the practice of the French to give his peasants reason to populate his army.

2. It's accurate to say that Muhammad Ali's reforms were unsuccessful because European pressures that existed during Egypt's time of war caused Egypt to fail in their pursuit of new territory. In addition, These new European forces forced Egypt to reopen it's trading situation so that European people's could take advantage of Egypt, effectively killing Egypt's efforts for building industry.

3. Geography was definitely a source of conflict between the Ottomans and the Russians because Russia wanted to obtain free access to the Mediterranean Sea and the Ottomans stood in their way of reaching this goal.

4. These various countries and their independence were symbolic of the Ottoman Empire's current condition because they were losing their grasp on the separate areas of their government. The Janissaries were creating consistent issues for the Sultan and therefore they put the Ottoman Empire in a weak position. And this didn't even include the political conflict for power for the Janissary Corp.

5. The Europeans viewed the Ottoman's defeat at these wars demonstrations of the Ottoman Empire's weakness, and therefore they quickly began their onslaught. They made the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire bow to their power in 1852 and gave ecclesiastical privileges.

6. The military defeats overall improved the Empire because the sultan of the Ottoman Empire of the time Mahmud understood that the Ottomans would likely lose, but he entered the war anyway as a way to further his own political reforms and to push the Janissary out of power completely, instead of just keeping their political power on a weak leash.

7. The religious elites and the Janissaries were bad for the reforms that were being laid down in the Ottoman Empire because they were consistently trying to maintain their own political powers within the state and were limiting the common people from being able to better succeed due to their own greed.

8. The Tanzimat laws greatly effects the position of religions in the Ottoman Empire because it gave them "equal" rights under the law in the Ottoman Empire and it brought books that were not Turkish in the Empire for the education of common people.

9. The Tanzimat had a critical impact on women because it brought in modern ideas into the empire, and this lead to women who were working in factories get pushed out by their male competition and they were forced into household jobs that were known as women's work.

10. It put the Europeans on constant edge with the Ottoman leaders because it was effectively the Europeans deciding whether or not they should allow for the Ottoman Empire to continue its independent existence, as European powers believed they had the power, and probably did, to take the Ottomans territory.

11. The Crimean war was caused by the Europeans belief that the Russians were becoming too ambitious in their attempts to create new trade routes and new opportunities for their own people. These actions could pose a threat to European power and when the Russians pushed their navy into the Mediterranean sea the Europeans wouldn't have any of that noise so the British and French made their anti-Russian efforts known.

12. The Crimean War influenced the Europeans ambitions in the Middle East because it made the weak position of the Ottomans more well known and lead the Europeans to put greater thought into their Eastern Question. If they took the Ottoman Empire they might be able to put in their own stronger powers, but at the same time, the period of war would put them at risk from the Russians.

13. The Crimean War impacted the methods that would be used for wars at later points in history because this was one of the first large wars in which people were using semi-efficient firearms to deal with the infantry of the other side. The war started with guns that were hard to maneuver but lasted until the point hen guns became an efficient military tool.

14. Ottoman urban centers began to grow and prosper after he war because the Ottomans were forced to remove their tariffs on European imports and this allowed for financial services such as banks to emerge within these urban centers, furthering the state's economic situation as a whole.

15. Both extraterritoriality and treaty ports are similar because they are both the consequences of foreign powers demanding settlement for their decision to not completely waste the current government of an area that they could easily dominate if they chose.

16. Both Russia and the Ottomans differed in their image from the European's perspective as the Russians were seen as being both alien and uncivilized while the Ottomans, due to their open reforms that empowered western culture, were seen as being more acceptable with their Eurocentric reforms. In addition, Russia had the ability to easily secede from combat while the Ottomans were stuck in the middle of a danger zone.

17. Industrialization was extremely slow to take hold in Russia because the political power of the country was being dominated by nobles who wanted to maintain power and the best way they knew how to do that was to maintain political ideals such as serfdom which kept labor costs low and indigenous.

18. The Russians demonstrated their differences from the English and French during their wars because they showed that they didn't have advanced weapons and were being delayed b a lack of power in their transportation methods. In addition, the Russians were less significantly using a separate alphabet which further pushed them from European ideas.

19. The Slavophiles and the young ottomans both existed due to the power issue that was occurring in their respective countries But the difference is that the slavophiles wished to return strictly to previous Russians ideals and politics while the young Ottomans endorsed a fusion of ideas for reform.

20. Pan-Slavism was definitely a nationalism movement because it brought together all slavic peoples of Russia and declared that they could act as a single entity under the title of Russia, it basically fits nationalism to a tee.

21. It increased the fear of the Asian nations towards Russia as they took city after city and established themselves. Some of the consequences included the movement of Islamic refugees, making the citizens of Europe to become even more anti Russian as they observed their violence towards anyone but their own people.

22. They would raise a monument for Alexander the First because he not only encouraged new political reforms and intellectual ideas but he also acted as a resistance against the French Napoleon who was going all around and beating states up for the street cred.

23. They were met with extreme resistance from the nobility because they were having their power displaced and they were having their primary source for labor being taken away. In addition, Alexander the First brought new educational options to the table which further gave the peasants of Russia a leg up on their wealthy land-owners.

24. The Decembrist revolt had an important effect on Nicholas' rule because they demonstrated and ensured that the new tsar would likely not be interested in implementing any new reforms that the other advisors or political members had to offer to him.

25. The artistic achievements were recognized due to the narodniki movement that grew in popularity underneath the reign of Alexander II and gave power of the land to the peasants, effectively removing some of the downward pressure that was being put onto local thinkers and artisans.

26. The Crimean War primarily put a new mindset into those of Russia, where the idea of adopting the numerous Western style reforms were consistently being doubted as they were facing the tensions with the Europeans in reality. The Europeans were being portrayed as the enemy, and indeed they were, at least currently, but they stopped expansion of Russia into European territories.

27. A Russian serf would obviously support the narodniki and the Emancipation Edict because it supplied them with new power and allowed for them to take some of the power away from the wealthy land-owners that wished to continue serfdom.

28. Both of these events represented the poor relationship between China and Europe, that were only getting worse. China was being seen as a self absorbed state who could not understand the benefits of opening up its trade to the foreign world and to allow the flow of goods into and out of its own ports.

29. Populations rapidly increased and suddenly there was not enough land to support the number of farmers, forcing them to oocupy crowded cities in which they tended to become homeless and only contributed to China's internal deterioration.

30. The reason that hate against the Qing grew in China was because the Qing leaders were consistently viewed as not Chinese but indeed foreigners who had the interests of European powers in mind and not the actual people of the state. And, these effects were increased due to local tensions between neighboring communities in China.

31. The two wars were considered to be imperialist aggression because they both had to with European powers, who were primarily imperialist, and their efforts to impose their own foreign policies in Chinese regions in order to better stimulate the European economy with the good trade that arrived and went to China during the time of the treaties created due to these wars.

32. Britain and China were compared during these wars because the British were heavily focused on long range and foreign contacts in which to establish trade routes and benefit its own local economies, while China was primarily concerned with cutting themselves off from the rest of the world in an attempt to maintain Chinese culture and internal influence.

33. It benefited British interests because Britain could no longer take second to any other country during its extensive trade with China, which meant Britain could effectively hold a trading monopoly for their very own companies that would benefit from the easily accessible trade.

34. The Taiping rebellion was caused in a broad sense by social unease and the movement of foreign powers into the structure of China, but in a more specific sense was caused by a Chinese man who had decided that he had had enough of the poor treatment from the government and their inability to control foreign affairs, so he did something about it.

35. The Arrow War could be called the Second Taiping Rebellion as people are killed but not buried properly which added to the death tolls taken by the plague and which once again put the common people in the light of America, who decided that these plagues needed to be cut off from entering their own state.

36. The Taiping Rebellion was a key event in the downfall of the Qing rulers because it was a demonstration of the weakness that existed among the Qing powers and how easily a rebellion could cripple their pervious positions and achievements, such as political unity.

37. They were both a response to the instability that was created by past events, the Taiping Rebellion for the Tongzi Restoration, and the Crimean Wars for the Tanzimat. Both sets of powers, the Qing and the Ottomans, attempted to use these breaks in weakness to lay down some new foundations for improvement but only the Tanzimat actually succeeded as the Tongzi delayed the problem until the eventual Qing downfall in the 1860s.

38. The Janissaries, Mamluks, and Bannerman were all military leaders for the respective states, but the most important thing was that they all held significant political influence that restricted the government from enacting reforms such as the Janissaries. Finally, they all suffered from the use of obsolete technology which further constricted their states. 

## Vocab

Sharia: The religious law that was enforced in Islamic territories and was based off of the interpretations of the Quran by Muslims.

Fez: A cap that Ottoman Soldiers wore as a compromise to the French hat with a shade since the Ottomans needed to be able to touch their head to the ground during prayers.

Zeng Guofan: A member of the new coalition of aristocrats and a provincial governor that began to rise to power and stabilize their power through legitimization of their own power.

Cixi: A Chinese Empress who was a strong advocator of reforms, allowing her to gain large support from provincial governors of China, but also defining her as a corrupt individual in the eyes of Chinese observers who saw these connections as monstrous.
